-=HULL: INTRO=-
Hull’s portrait was generated by Dream by Wombo, an AI art site.  Its base image was Hull’s portrait from Portraits Portraits Everywhere.
If you’ve played Baldur’s Gate, you’ve probably interacted with Hull.  He’s a drunken guard of Candlekeep that seemed to have a knack to know when war was coming, but also knew to rely on you, CHARNAME, to get him out of trouble.  Maybe you even returned his sword to him!
In unmodded BG1, talking to him after returning to Candlekeep has him say that when all this is over, he’d like to have a drink with you.  Normally, that never happens, and I’ve not heard of any mod where it does.  (This mod’s script was written with the assumption that even mods didn’t make this happen.)
Still, months ago - October 23, 2022 to be exact - I was inspired to consider Hull as a recruitable NPC.  He clearly has some relation with CHARNAME, Imoen, Gorion, and others in Candlekeep, even if it’s minor.  (He’s also apparently important enough to be found under Candlekeep in chapter 6 in a vanilla game!)  To use a modern day analog, maybe he’s like a security guard you meet every day when entering or leaving school or work - someone with which you have passing familiarity, but not much deep interaction.
This mod (Hull NPC and Candlekeep Expansion AKA Hull NPC or just Hull) is intended to make Hull an interesting recruitable NPC throughout the EET saga.  Don’t worry:  EET isn’t required, but you’ll get the most comments from him if he’s in your group throughout the entire saga.
HOW TO RECRUIT HULL
-In BG1, return his sword to him in Candlekeep.  He’ll offer to join you with Imoen after Gorion’s death.  (There are some other points in BG1 where he leaves the party, but where he goes should be obvious if you paid attention to what he said.)
-In SoD, if you didn’t bring him along to beat Sarevok, he’s initially in the Elfsong Tavern in Baldur’s Gate.  Later, he moves to the Coalition Camp in the southern part to guard the party’s items.
-In BG2: SoA, he’s in the Copper Coronet.
-In ToB, use your Pocket Plane’s Fate Spirit to call him forth.
-If you removed him from your party, he’s probably where you left him.
What if I just want to be told where Hull is if he (seemingly) isn’t in one of the above spots?
-BG1: Check the bar at the Friendly Arm Inn or Elfsong Tavern in Baldur’s Gate.
-ToB: Check Watcher’s Keep.
INTERACTIONS WITH OTHER NPCS
-Hull has at least 1 party banter with all other BioWare & BeamDog recruitable NPCs.
-Hull also has interactions with many mod-added or mod-expanded NPCs.  Check the Cross-Mod Content section of this document for details.
HULL’S PERSONALITY
In BG, Hull has some personality:  He’s liked to drink alcohol.  He’s a Candlekeep guard.  He has some understanding of how Candlekeep and its citizens operate.  He’s probably helped CHARNAME and Imoen in exchange for some minor help from them.
Mostly, Hull is a blank slate.  By default, he’s intentionally a minor character unlike Gorion or Imoen.  (Imoen was originally intended as a minor character in BG1, but her importance was increased because the dev team wanted a recruitable, non-”psychotic” Thief in BG1.)
This mod fills in many of the details of Hull’s personality and aims to answer certain questions regarding Candlekeep and Gorion.
Hull admires Gorion.  He’s heard some of the tales of how Gorion was a Harper, befriended Elminster, and they did wonderful stuff together.  Gorion is the sort of father Hull wished he had, and after Gorion’s death, decides to try to help CHARNAME by acting sorta like Gorion.  Partly over the guilt he felt in letting Gorion through the gate the night of his murder and also because he wanted to see the world, protect CHARNAME, and avert the war with Amn he heard about, he’ll offer to join your party.  Besides, he was very tired of staring at walls for days at a time and drinking himself silly to dumb the boredom!
Drizzt is one of his heroes as well, and has admired him for being a hero to the people.  Just don’t hurt Drizzt with Hull in or near the party if you value your friendship with Hull.
Hull tries to maintain a cheery, protective personality throughout the game.  (He was a Candlekeep guard for many years, and he’s somewhat trying to pick up from where Gorion left off.)  Get used to him being your ‘Uncle Hull’ and calling you ‘kid’ - just like other Candlekeep guardsmen did.
Hull tries to be a permissive parent and tries to get along with everyone, but he just can’t stand persistent evil nor injustice.  He’ll gladly warn you about how Dorn seems to him like a murderer, and how all shorties are sneak thieves by default.  He knows that Gorion did his best to see the best in Imoen and you and tries to be patient with the two of you, but he has limits.  And, yes, you can be cruel or caring to him.
Magic has fascinated him since he was around casters most of his life, and, yes, Gorion being a caster was a large part of this.  He’ll probably get along well with Edwin and Baeloth despite their EVIL alignments just due to him liking and respecting their offices and the power they wield.
Hull is intentionally more quiet in BG1 than BG2.  He’s new to the outside world just like CHARNAME is and has fewer opinions on how he should act like a parent.  He’s trying to adjust to life outside Candlekeep just like CHARNAME and Imoen are.  He still has a small number of scenes where he acts like a lawman because his guard training never fully left him.
Once you recruit him in BG2, he’ll have more to say for reasons I’d prefer not to spoil here.  In short, he’s loyal to Imoen and you, and things he learned in Candlekeep turn out to be useful later in the story.
Hull will sometimes leave the party for plot reasons - and not just because of the transition between BG1 & BG2 - but there should be ample guidance on where to find him again if you remember his dialog.
(Hull also was written this way in response to Sandrah from the Sandrah Saga being an attention hog.  Hull wants to be a loyal, fun friend that’s sometimes the center of attention, but even he has standards.  He’s like a more humorous version of Virgil from ARCANUM, a companion available from just about the start of the game who’s pretty tolerant and trusting, but prefers the party act nobly.)
Hull at least tries to get along well with the Paladins Ajantis and Keldorn.  He respects the office of Paladinhood and part of him wants to be this way.
HULL’S PLAYER PROFILE
Baldur’s Gate was originally made to feel as much as possible like a tabletop adventure.  Thus, I imagined that if this were a tabletop rendition of the D&D rules, Hull would be played by a guy who’s generally jovial, fun, and enjoying the rules and the story.  Maybe he’s a GMPC, also known as a party member the GM (the Game Master or Dungeon Master) controls.
HULL’S QUESTS
In BG1 but not SoD, Hull has a new quest - Hull on Tap - which involves visiting various taverns in the vanilla game and drinking from them.  Hull on Tap (Baldur’s Gate City) is separate from his other Hull on Tap quest which covers other bars in the Candlekeep region.  (Hull’s Longsword is still a prolog quest, and if you use BG1 Romantic Encounters, there’s a short extra dialog with him where you can persuade him to get his longsword from him.  That content isn’t from this Hull NPC mod, however, but BG1 Romantic Encounters.)
In BG2: SoA, Hull wants to become a knight and join Athkatla’s Most Noble Order of the Radiant Heart.  With Hull in the party, visit Prelate Wessalen in the Order HQ and tell him that Hull wants to say something.
In BG2: ToB if you’re playing on EET, once you’re able to access the world map, Hull wants to return to Candlekeep.
In ToB, regardless of whether you play on EET, you can visit Sister Garlena atop Watcher’s Keep’s exterior to have her send Candlekeep a message.  (For EET players, the quest EXP is the same overall if you visit Garlena first and have her send the message versus visiting Candlekeep in person.  Garlena’s message still has some unique dialog.)
HULL’S EPILOGS
“All good things must end.” -Rephrasing of the title of the final episode of Star Trek: The Next Generation
Hull has more than one epilog.  To get his ‘bad’ ending, do Dorn’s ToB quest and favor Dorn in the conflict.
Beyond this, I wish to avoid spoiling everything so easily here!
HULL’S MECHANICS
In short, Hull is unlike many other recruitable NPCs.  He has no unique kits like Verr’Sza, and he isn’t a companion-only race like Varshoon.  He has no unique spells like Walahnan.  However, in vanilla he does have a longsword.
By default, Hull is a Human Fighter, which in BG terms means he’s open to dual classing.  (Thanks to the mod Aran Whitehand for the inspiration!)
Hull’s default alignment is LN, but at install time, you can set it to LG, NG, LN, or TN depending on how you view his personality and to what class you intend to dual him.  (By default, a Fighter >> Druid must be TN and a Fighter >> Rogue can’t be LG.  Dualing to Priest of Lathander requires a Good alignment, dualing to Priest of Tempus requires TN (or other alignments normally not offered via this mod), dualing to Priest of Tyr requires LG, NG, or LN, and dualing to Priest of Helm requires LN or TN or the normally inaccessible CN.)
Hull’s default ability scores are meant to make him versatile with 18/91 STR, 17 DEX, 18 CON, 18 INT, 17 WIS, and 17 CHA.  These stats are high, yes, but mostly because BG’s dual class prereqs are so high!  (17 WIS & CHA to be a Druid?  Whu?!)
Hull’s high STR, DEX, and CON are because he’s first and foremost a warrior in the low level difficult spots of BG1 where he must be useful!  His mental stats mostly only matter if he’s a caster or via mods.  (Sure, he starts the game as a drunk, but he’s just been so very bored guarding Candlekeep that his mental stats didn’t matter very much.  I wrote him like a prodigy pal who’s squandered a lot of time taking an easy way through life.)
If using the default proficiency system, Hull starts with 2 ranks in Longbow and Longsword at level 1.  Starting at a higher level has him focus on maxing Longsword then Longbow then Sword & Shield style.
To customize him further, I recommend the NPC EE mod which allows changing of each character’s class, kit, ability scores (STR, etc.), and proficiencies.
Note that each Fighter dual class and multiclass combo (Fighter/Druid, etc.) has some minor unique dialog in-game.  If Hull is somehow a Sorcerer or a Paladin or a Bard of any kit, there’s also a bit of unique dialog related to his class.
CANDLEKEEP EXPANSION
All named NPCs in Candlekeep get at least 1 more line after CHARNAME returns to the keep, regardless of whether Hull is in the party.  Other recruitable NPCs also generate lines as well, most notably Imoen and Sarevok, and to a much lesser extent, Jaheira & Khalid.
What do they discuss?
These topics, among other things:
-Why wasn’t Gorion resurrected when Candlekeep took the body and there’s an active priesthood on staff?
-Sorry that your adoptive father got murdered right in front of you and assassins tried to kill you in your home.  How can I help?
-What did Gorion originally have planned for CHARNAME?
-What was Elminster’s plan for CHARNAME if Gorion survived?
PS: If you’re on EET and you want to fight Ulraunt with a chance of killing him, this mod lets you do that as part of Hull’s ToB homecoming.
HULL’S ALTERNATE PORTRAITS
Alternate 1 (Suspicious): Portraits Portraits Everywhere
Alternate 2 (Bed Head): Dream by Wombo
Alternate 3 (The BG): Dream by Wombo
Alternate 4 (Not Adolf): Dream by Wombo
CROSS-MOD CONTENT (HULL)
Hull has cross-mod (crossmod or cross mod) content with many other mods and should be installed after all of these!  The scope of this content is normally a small number of lines, and unless otherwise stated, the contents of these other mods remain unchanged.  
Areas & Adventures
-Athkatlan Grounds: Alabaster Sands
-Black Pits in EET
-Boarskyr Bridge Scene
-IWD 1 & 2 in EET (tipun’s version)
-Trials of the Luremaster for EET
-Wheels of Prophecy
Crafting Mods
-Golem Construction for Spellcasters
Mod-Added or Notably Expanded NPCs
-Afaaq the Djinni
-Drizzt (Drizzt Saga & Region of Terror)
-Grey the Dog
-Hephernaan (Hephernaan in BG2)
-Imoen (Imoen 4 Ever)
-Irenicus (The Longer Road)
-Haiass el Lobo
-Sandrah (Sandrah Saga - permission not sought)
-Saradas (Saradas Magic I & Saradas Magic II AKA Saradas Magic for BG2)
-Sir Neh’taniel
Romantic Content
-Romantic Encounters for BG1
Likely Incompatible
NOTE TO MOD UPDATERS, EDITORS, AND MAINTAINERS
Want to update this Hull NPC mod or/and add functionality to another mod or sets of mods that directly references or uses or builds upon or changes content from this mod?  Follow all these steps, and you have my full permission!
In essence the below requirements are, “Respect the existing contents and improve them.”  The text below more explicitly explains how.
* If you update the Hull mod directly, regardless of the contents (new lines, new translations, bug fixes, new minigames, etc.), then in your new version, mention what version of Hull you used as a base and provide a download link.  (Was it 1.0?  1.29 beta?  Something else?)
* Include the credits section from the original mod in your new version.  Expand the credits section to include your contributions if you want.  Also mention in your version’s documentation its new features, new translations, bug fixes, or/and other changes your team or you made that are included in your version.  (Line by line, function by function, byte by byte change logs are optional.  Giving the gist of what you did is normally good enough, like add a new overworld area named “Isle of Nymm” with 10 new NPCs, 4 new creature types, 29 new spells (arcane) and 5 new spells (divine), a buncha new dialog lines and items.)
* Include this section in your new version (Note to Mod Updaters, Editors, and Maintainers).
* Include the cross-mod content section with links to official versions of mods with which Hull NPC has cross-mod content.  Explicitly mention the install order of these other mods relative to Hull.  (Normally, these other mods are to be installed before Hull.)  If you add more cross-mod content, explicitly mention which mods you used for cross-mod content and provide links to official downloads of these mods.  By default, link to a GitHub mod page or a forum page with links to downloads and NOT directly to a file (like from Google Drive or DropBox or MediaFire or Mega.NZ) since file versions can change often!
* If you write new lines or new text-only content for him, either in a Hull mod update or in another mod that uses Hull, keep these lines in character.  His fundamental, immutable rules are these:
   * Hull doesn’t do romances with CHARNAME nor Imoen once they leave Candlekeep.  (Anything that happened before that is considered prolog stuff that Hull would quickly dismiss once in the field.)  Hull seems himself as being Gorion’s replacement, and it would be awkward for Gorion to have romantic or sexual relations with his adopted kids.
   * Hull is strictly straight and wants to avoid evil.  He might be involved in relationships with Tieflings, Aasimar, Genasi, and extraplanar creatures as well as more common creatures like Humans, Elves, and Half-Humans.  He’s concerned that Dwarves, Gnomes, Halflings, and other short creatures are too short, and Giants, Dragons, and other bigger creatures are too big!  (It’s hard to embrace a lover who’s about 50% taller than you!)
   * Even then, he’s against romances (and long-term affiliations) with true fiends like demons and devils.  They’re bad, they’re wrong, and they should be destroyed or nullified!
   * Perhaps unlike Sandrah, Hull believes in mutual consent for romantic relationships.  He’s a (former) lawman himself and understands some of the negative consequences of drunk casters trying to have their way against others’ wills.
   * Protecting and helping CHARNAME and Imoen is still Hull’s primary focus on his mission, even if he gets involved in romance.
   * If Hull is in his right mind, he wants to act heroically.  He admires Drizzt, Elminster, Gorion, and other heroic figures of the realms.  He is VERY against hurting heroic figures like Drizzt or Paladins unless he has a very good reason!  (However, if he IS mind controlled, then his will would likely be replaced with the will of whatever controlled him.  Even if it turns him into an Illithid or a Paladin slayer or something evil.  He would likely feel like a remorseful sucker if that happened to him and he regained his sanity and mental control.)
   * Hull learned from Gorion’s attitude of trying to see the best in people.  He’s likely to be more patient or tolerant regarding a low party reputation or CHARNAME’s choice of EVIL companions or companions of dubious morality.  (In this regard, he’s somewhat like Virgil from Arcanum.)  He does have limits, though he’s tolerated a lot for the sake of helping CHARNAME, Imoen, and Candlekeep - just like he imagined Gorion would do.
   * Hull enjoys reading and is open to learning.
   * Hull generally respects casters and, at least at the start of the game, has felt divided on trying to become one.  Being a caster doesn’t automatically make him forgive atrocities this being has done.  (Irenicus is a solid example.)  Being a caster also doesn’t excuse being mean or insane.  (Xzar is a solid example.)
   * Hull has enjoyed drinking alcohol, but he doesn’t want to live his life as a drunk.  In Candlekeep, drinking was how he socialized with the guards and bar patrons and coped with his feelings of being trapped and bored in this job he’d outgrown.  Thus, some drinking-related activities are OK, but rarely is he OK with just getting drunk for the fun of it.
   * Hull knows certain things about the world from Candlekeep that would likely be beyond the scope of a typical Human Fighter.  Remember, he grew up in Candlekeep where “these walls contain the world’s knowledge,” and has talked with and escorted a variety of sages, scholars, and nobles from around the world throughout the keep’s grounds.  Don’t expect him to be able to recite encyclopedias on a whim, but he can and will sometimes share some interesting facts that he learned that help CHARNAME or/and the plot.
   * Hull doesn’t start off knowing the true heritage of CHARNAME and Imoen.  Eventually, he learns it and is somewhat uneasy about it, but figures that since Gorion knew, he (Hull) should stay too.
      * For lines that you also want me to voice over, the above rules regarding text apply.  In addition, I must agree to whatever lines you want me to read for Hull, as well as their context.  In short, this is a very collaborative process!  Also, for the sake of my sanity, I simply cannot guarantee that I will agree to voice these extra lines even if I agree with their contents and contexts due to my schedule; thus, my answer is a definite ‘maybe.’
      * On a technical level, Hull NPC and Candlekeep Expansion must remain compatible with EET (Enhanced Edition Trilogy).  Supporting other platforms like BG:EE, BG2:EE, and the pre-EE BG1, BG2, or/and BGT is allowed and encouraged.  (If you think Hull would make for an interesting enough IWD:EE or/and IWDII companion and you want to port him there, go ahead!  Just be prepared for all the relevant dialog, among other things!)
I wrote the dialog and provided voice acting for Hull.  I also asked and obtained the permission of various modders to use their stuff.
Authors, Updaters, Testers, and Maintainers of Mods Used for Cross-Mod Content
Thanks to the various authors of cross-mod content!  Refer to the Cross-Mod Content section for full details!
Graphic Artists
bob_veng: He has allowed the modding community to use his otherwise-unused IWD in EET spell icons and background images.  (The .PNG files are for community use.  Talk with Bob specifically about the .PSD files.)
Portraits, Portraits Everywhere: These images were taken from a variety of sources and the mod was maintained by various people, but some portraits were used in this mod or as inspiration for AI alterations via Dream by Wombo.
Other Alternative Portrait Artists.
For full per-image credit details, refer to each character’s alternative portraits section.
         * Forgotten Realms Wiki
         * Isandir
         * Mark Meer’s Twitter
         * Shaydh on Tumblr
         * Wizards of the Coast (Joshua Raphael)
            * Fandom Wiki
            * Dream by Wombo
            * Larian Studios
The Infinity Engine Modding Community
Thankee for decades of making and maintaining mods and providing help to those who seek it!
-=BAELOTH IN BG2: INTRO=-
  Baeloth the Entertainer - sometimes called Baeloth Barrityl - begs the question of his bereft appearance in Baldur’s Gate II’s campaign.
Baeloth Barrityl was laid bare after The Black Pits broke him but brought him back to bargain with CHARNAME.  SoD saw the return of Baeloth’s Black Pits as a barren shadow of its former self.
Then there was silence.
Baeloth was back incognito in The Black Pits II, but he was never properly playable in Baldur’s Gate II’s campaign... until now!
Baeloth is most known for his alliteration/assonance, arcane ability, agreements with genies, and antics.  Expect Baeloth the Entertainer to excite and delight, but don’t forget - he’s still a drow.
“Come one, come all! See the cream of the Sword Coast's combatant crop! Witness the brilliant and bizarre battles in the Black Pits of the one and only Baeloth the Entertainer!”
HOW TO RECRUIT BAELOTH IN BG2
        In BG2 Chapter 2 or 3, talk to Lehtinan or Bernard in Athkatla’s Copper Coronet and receive a request to retrieve Baeloth, the Coronet’s missing battlemaster.  (Baeloth is in Small Teeth Pass.)  Note that this mod and others make Small Teeth Pass accessible once leaving Athkatla’s City Gates.
        Alternatively, visit Small Teeth Pass and find Baeloth amidst the chaos.  Talk with him, help him, and he can join you.
If you’re on BG2 Chapter 6 or later, check the North Woods instead.
Talk to the Fate Spirit in the Pocket Plane.
BAELOTH’S ALTERNATE PORTRAITS
Alternate 1 (Staff Grinning): Fandom Wiki
Alternate 1a (Staff Grinning with Cavern Background): Mark Meer’s Twitter
Alternate 2 (Baeloth’s Bargain): Fandom Wiki
Alternate 2a (Baeloth’s Bargain with Cavern Background): Mark Meer's Twitter
Alternate 3 (Distant Gaze): Fandom Wiki
Alternate 4 (Mellow): Mark Meer’s Twitter
Alternate 5 (MTG Black Pits): Wizards of the Coast (Joshua Raphael)
Alternate 6 (Battlemaster Comic): Shaydh on Tumblr
Alternate 7 (Isandir’s Baeloth in BGII Style): Isandir
Alternate 8 (Isandir’s Baeloth in BGII Style): Isandir
Alternate 9 (Overlooking the Black Pits): Forgotten Realms Wiki
BAELOTH’S MECHANICS
Based on my research, in BG1EE, Baeloth was made a playable recruitable NPC because BeamDog wanted to apologize to fans for releasing the game late.  Baeloth was intended as a hidden character, an Easter Egg, a joke, and an exploit.  He was so well-received he was officially added a canonical and recruitable NPC in Siege of Dragonspear.
Why call Baeloth an exploit?  He’s a Drow Sorcerer - a race not normally available to characters in the base game and debatably the most powerful base class in the game if built and played correctly - and he knows more spells than a typical Sorcerer!  The plot justification is that he made arrangements with his genie Najim to obtain the ring Barrityl’s Burden which grants him extra spells known, but he can’t remove the ring.  He’s powerful, yes, but by default, his power stays in BG1.
Also, unlike certain other recruitable NPCs considered more powerful than normal like Alora for her +2 Luck item who can only be gotten in a late chapter of the game, Baeloth is available as early as chapter 1 of the game via the protagonist gaining at least 10,000 EXP.  This means, for example, a level 4 character could recruit Baeloth whose minimum EXP when starting is 40,000 or enough for level 6 or higher by default.  Baeloth also starts with a stolen Robe of the Evil Archmage, meaning his gear is plausibly more powerful than anything else you have on hand.
Baeloth is also different in that he’s a main antagonist in a prequel campaign to BG1, the Black Pits.  The party - normally a different one than the BG1 party - beats him there, his power is reduced, and he’s revived and recruitable under somewhat ambiguous terms.  His voice and determination to build a bigger, bloodier, and better Black Pits arena remain.
In the spirit of this, Baeloth in BGII is also recruitable early - as early as BG2’s chapter 2 - and starts with gear that’s potent for the context in which he starts.  It is intentionally not the most powerful gear in the game.
Baeloth has an innate ability of dimension door usable at will.  Yes, this is potentially game-breaking because it allows going places ‘out of bounds’ or skipping important location-based triggers, but other mods like OlvynSpells include dimension door for player characters to learn and use, and this spell is one of Baeloth’s signature abilities.  (I lost count of how many times he used it in the Black Pits.)
Speaking of spells, Baeloth’s spell selection is also intended to work well with or without Spell Revisions (SR) and with or without Sword Coast Stratagems (SCS) since those are the main mods which change the effectiveness of vanilla spells.  He also kept his extra spells known from BG1 and found ways to remove his annoying Barrityl’s Burden ring while keeping the extra spells known.  (Spell levels 4 and higher have the standard number of Sorcerer spells known.)
Being a Sor, Baeloth’s weapon proficiencies don’t matter much.
If you still want to customize him further, I recommend the NPC EE mod which allows changing of each character’s class, kit, ability scores (STR, etc.), and proficiencies, including spells known.
Beyond this, in SoA and EET, the party can participate in fights in the Copper Coronet Coliseum by paying various characters throughout the vanilla SoA areas plus Watcher’s Keep plus a new location from this mod to add creatures and themed battles to the mix.  (Baeloth need not be present in the Copper Coronet once you’ve liberated it via the slave rebellion quest.)
-=TRINDEN IN BG2: INTRO=-
  Trinden Felsad - author of The Metaphysical Revolution, god in training, expert craftsman,  and man of many talents - is available to be CHARNAME’s assistant - and not replacement - for attaining godhood.
AI-generated image from Dream by Wombo, “portrait male half green dragon wearing silver full plate chest covered no horns facing front portrait centered fierce” with the HDR v3 filter.
Trinden Felsad, nephew of the famed Conrad Linus Felsad, is the leader of House Felsad on the plane of Yevir, a house focused on the industrialization of divine magic.  Yevir is a plane where humans, elves, and dwarves recently caused a war which nearly annihilated everyone on the surface of the world, but Yevir is also a world of great innovation and metaphysical industrializing as lead by the once-shunned ‘monstrous’ races such as orcs, goblins, kobolds, and ogres.
My, how things have changed!
Trinden is full-blooded orc who underwent various versions of a draconic ritual until the ritual was perfected.  Why?  Trinden is a warrior and a priest of House Felsad, its merchant prince, and its primary muscle.  Trinden understands and believes in winning at psychological and emotional warfare as well as physical warfare, preferring intimidation and manipulation in addition to being exceptionally brutal and difficult to permanently kill.  Trinden is also a master metaphysical item craftsman, but his uncle is a better one and he has often outsourced such duties due to the time required.
Furthermore, Trinden is a god in training, having undergone various trials throughout the planes and is performing in-person research and advising regarding beings that are likely to soon ascend to divinity.
Trinden’s personality is often severe, but it is sincere toward those he trusts.  Since your (CHARNAME’s) divine heritage is part of his research, expect him to be better tempered toward you and the situation than if you two had no common goals.  “Magic solves everything, violence solves everything, and money solves everything” - also known as Trinden’s Trinity - is a phrase you should expect Trinden to live by.
Trinden is savage, intelligent, persuasive, and resourceful - all characteristics of having to live in a time of a cold war and an age of subterfuge to prevent overtly breaking international treaties and possibly causing the end of all life on his home plane.
HOW TO RECRUIT TRINDEN IN BG2
Talk to Trinden in the Pocket Plane.  (If for some reason that doesn’t work, instead talk to the Fate Spirit in the Pocket Plane.)
TRINDEN’S ALTERNATE PORTRAITS
Alternate 1 (Calm Trinden): Dream by Wombo
Alternate 2 (Fire in his Eyes): Dream by Wombo
Alternate 3 (Friendly): Dream by Wombo
TRINDEN’S MECHANICS
Trinden is enough of a green dragon (the symbol of House Felsad) to gain some draconic abilities - an acid breath weapon, wings that can blow creatures back, and, if you also have EEex and OlvynSpells installed before the cross-mod component, also a permanent Fly spell effect.*
Trinden is a Cleric/Fighter multiclass with a custom kit - Head of House Felsad.  This new kit is mostly to change Trinden’s title to something more thematically fitting for him, and multiclass kits don’t normally count against the kit limit in big mod installs the way single classed kits do.  (Single-classed kits are normally more restrictive.)
In essence, Trinden is a Cleric/Fighter who can equip any weapon a Fighter can, and Trinden’s focus is on the longsword - not because they’re common in the Baldur’s Gate games, but because they’re effective - to the point that he claimed that others copied his lightly-armored and highly mobile longsword & shield style.  Trinden is a fan of ruthless efficiency - at least on his home plane.
Trinden, though a competent item crafter, defers to others in this game to create items.  In ToB, Cespenar can simply do his job and Trinden is happy to allow this.
Trinden is also an author and much of his story and the story of his plane are in the book series he offers you soon after initially meeting him, “The Metaphysical Revolution.”
- - - - - - -
*Fly - Requires EEex
Level: 3
Range: Touch
Duration: 1 turn + 1 round/level
Casting Time: 3
Area of Effect: 1 creature
Saving Throw: None
This wondrous spell gives a creature the power to fly. For the duration, the creature can fly over normally impassable objects such as houses, walls, and rivers, but only as long as the creature is outdoors. The higher level the caster, the faster the creature's flying speed. The creature is also unaffected by ground-based spells such as Grease, Web, Entangle, and Earthquake.
-=VOLO: INTRO=-
  Volo, as marvelously modeled in Baldur’s Gate III.  Bard, historian, surgeon, braggart, playright, entertainer, and Jack of ALL Trades.  Yes, even that.
(Image Source)
If you’ve played Baldur’s Gate, you’ve probably interacted with Volothamp Geddarm, better known as Volo.  He’s a Faerunian historian, scholar, storyteller, and man of many trades.  His work has canonically been edited and proofread by Elminster himself!  He’s also an author self-insert character who’s been around since early 2nd edition D&D.  In short, while Elminster is considered more of a power fantasy and diegetic GM character due to his great power, Volo is a diegetic GM character in the sense that he just knows a lot and focuses on sharing this information in an entertaining way, regardless of how helpful or accurate it is to the receiver.
For someone who’s been so well-traveled in the realms and the planes, why does he never want to join the party?  Baldur’s Gate III and other D&D official material plainly state that Volo survived Saradush and ToB.
This mod answers some of the questions I had about what would happen if Volo had a more active role in the events of BG1 and 2.  I imagined him as the one who wrote the in-game books detailing your party’s lives and deeds, and Volo has been known to be a semi-reliable narrator.
Volo is still recruitable in the same places as in vanilla, meaning no Volo for SoD for plot reasons past the early phases. (I did this to justify him writing so much about the party’s exploits, among other things.)  He’s recruitable in Vyatri’s Pub in Trademeet in SoA and the Tankard Tree in Saradush in ToB.
Volo is also given some abilities and gear to make his extraordinary antics and feats of survival more plausible.  His stats have been adapted for this mod:  As a Bard, he’s still technically a Mage kit due to how things were coded, but he’s a basic, trueclass Bard.  He’s intelligent, persuasive, and not meant to be in melee, but you can play him as you like.
HOW TO RECRUIT VOLO
Volo is in his default spots in BG1 and ToB.  He isn’t in SoA in vanilla, and I assumed this was to give him time to do the research on your party and write the stuff he did.
-In BG1, either clear the Nashkel Mines as normal for the plot OR visit the lowest floor in Durlag’s Tower, then ask him to join.  You can also persuade him to join you if you offer him enough cash.
-In SoD, Volo will receive an urgent message and leave the party soon after SoD starts.  You can talk with him to persuade him to stay a bit longer, but he will eventually leave.  (If he’s in the party when they kill Sarevok, he tells the party he has finally received this important message and must leave soon!  He can be persuaded to stay until the party leaves Baldur’s Gate City near the start of SoD, but that’s as long as he’ll stay in BGI.)
-In BG2: SoA, Volo is recruitable in Trademeet’s Vyatri’s Pub.  He can only join your group if either you’ve beaten ALL the Cowled Wizards in Athkatla OR you’ve bought a magic license AND you’ve paid Corneil (the license seller in the Council of Six building) an extra 10,000G to persuade the Cowled Wizards to remove the curse put on Volo due to him publishing “Volo’s Guide to All Things Magical.”
-In BG2: ToB, he’s in Saradush’s Tankard Tree.  Talk with him and ask him to join.  He can join you regardless of whether he joined you previously.
-Alternatively, in ToB, if Hull is in your party and Volo isn’t but Volo is in Saradush, you can fulfill Hull’s request to help evacuate the city.  Provide Hull the required items and Hull and Volo will escape Saradush safely and be on the exterior of Watcher’s Keep.
-If you removed Volo from your party, he’s probably where you left him.
DIALOG FORMAT
Dialog Option for Player
Response from NPC
Dialog Submenu for Player: Replaces Previous Layer of Dialog 
Response from NPC
[If All These Conditions Are Met] Dialog Option for Player
NPC’s Response
Notes Regarding “...”
... means there’s more dialog before or after this.
BG1: HULL’S INITIAL MEETING WITH <CHARNAME> AND VISITING GORION’S AMBUSH SITE
Initial Meeting Post-Gorion’s Death
HULL: <Hull looks you in the eyes, clearly uncomfortable.  He sighs as he straightens his posture and speaks.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid... I’m sorry about Gorion.  He was pretty quiet about what he was doing with you and why.  I wanted to say thanks for covering for me earlier with the Gatewarden and being someone I could trust to keep me odda trouble.  Sorry if I seemed hard on ya.  
Why were you with Imoen?
HULL: Kid, we had a game in the Candlekeep guard called, “Spot Imoen.”  The Chief made it part of our sobriety test.  If we could find her, and even better if we didn’t get caught, then we didn’t get scolded.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Imoen is in the party.>
IMOEN: Hmm.  <used voiced line from here>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Girl, it wasn’t our fault you were the best thief training around!  Never mess with a buncha bored guards who just wanna get through their shift!
Why did you come all this way to talk to me?
HULL: <Hull sighs.>  Well, kid, I was thinking...
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Imoen is in the party.>
IMOEN: Thinking’s good!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: ...that since Gorion wanted to escort you where you were going, that I should take over his job since, he’s well, y’know, dead as can be without being animated.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: The world outside Candlekeep is rough and probably out of its mind, with the Sword Coast on the verge of war ‘n’ all, or so I figure with this iron crisis.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: So, whatta ya say, kid?  Want Uncle Hull to try to take the place of Daddy Gorion?  I’m not a caster last I checked, but I watched Imoen and you grow up, taught ya to fight, and, well, there’s more strength in bigger numbers.  Especially with my muscles!
“Uncle” Hull?  You’re my relative now?
HULL: Well, Gorion was your adopted father.  I’m adopting you, kid, and I’m your uncle!
It’s a deal, Hull.
HULL: Thanks, kid.  <Hull joins the group if there’s room and says his ‘no room for me’ dialog otherwise.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And one more thing.  Now that we left Candlekeep, I’d like to try some local flavors of booze.  I heard there’s some good drinkin’ around here.  We can talk more about it on the way.
I thought you were gonna sober up after leaving Candlekeep.
HULL: I didn’t say I was gonna get -drunk- off this stuff, kid.  I just wanted to try the stuff.  Besides, fighting off bandits and assassins and bears is thirsty work!
HULL: Curiosity, kid.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And if we ever went back to Candlekeep, I could help Winthrop with the recipe!  Or just tell him where to import his booze.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Consider it our own research project to write up for Candlekeep.  It’d be a one-of-a-kind book, kid!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I call it, “Hull On Tap: Savoring the Flavors of Booze in the Candlekeep Region.”
Somehow I’m not convinced Ulraunt would want -that- sort of rare book in his library.
HULL: His loss, kid!  -Plenty- of people wanna know where to get the best drinks!
Good drinks?  Where?
HULL: There’s the Friendly Arm Inn, of course.  Beregost has a few taverns.  Nashkel has one, and the carnival’s in town so there should be a beer tent.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I’d like to try some Ulgoth’s Beer in Ulgoth’s Beard northa here.
What about Baldur’s Gate?
HULL: Last I heard, that city was shut up tighter than Ulrant’s ass with the iron crisis ‘n’ all.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: We can make that a separate tour if we ever get in.
What about more distant regions like Icewind Dale or Amn?
HULL: Eh, maybe, kid.  Considering how much the transportation would cost and the whole political instability with Amn, I dunno how well that would work.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Icewind Dale is also a -really- long way from Candlekeep, kid, like hundreds of miles!  Neverwinter and Waterdeep are closer, but they’re -still- tens or hundreds of miles each way!  On foot, that’s a risky trade route.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Sure, some Wizards in Candlekeep could just Teleport there and back, but how many Teleport spells and mishaps are you gonna go through just to transport booze?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: If you’re someone like Tethtoril or Ulraunt, probably none.
What about smaller settlements in the region around Candlekeep?
HULL: Last I checked, they weren’t common.  We live in dangerous times, kid, and I wouldn’t wanna try dealing with a village so small I couldn’t even find it on a map.
Let’s be on our way, then.
HULL: Thanks!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And take this, kid.  It’ll cover some drinks I’ve been meaning to buy ya with all the drama that happened around Candlekeep.
<The party gains 10G.>
<END DIALOG.  START PHASE 1 OF QUEST “HULL ON TAP (CANDLEKEEP REGION)”.>
Not now, Hull.
HULL: Alright, kid.  I understand.  A lot’s happened recently.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Gorion said something about going to the Friendly Arm Inn, so I’ll check it out.  I heard they had some good ale.  Good luck out there!  <Hull leaves.>
Let’s talk more first.
HULL: Alright.  Whatcha wanna know?
How about we just return home to Candlekeep?
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, it ain’t safe there.  I heard someone tried to kill you there, and, well, I’m sorry the guards didn’t stop it.  But even if it were safe, kid, Gorion ain’t there to make you look good and get you in.
Can’t you just get us back in?
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, I -may- be able to sneak us in, but we ain’t welcome there unless we pay the fee of whatever rare book that ass Ulraunt feels like having that day.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I sorta ‘quit’ Candlekeep to come help ya, kid, and help fix the mad, mad world we’re in.  We’re just better off doing what Gorion set you off to do.
What did you mean by sorta quitting Candlekeep?
HULL: I told the other guards I was headed out to help ya, kid.  They wished me luck.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: They didn’t -technically- exile me like they did with you, but they also didn’t tell me to bring you back, either.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I s’pose we’re on the same page now.
Wait!  Did they specifically say -I- was not welcome back without Gorion?
HULL: Yeah, kid, and I’m sorry to hear that.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: They said Gorion was the only reason you were allowed to stay in Candlekeep so long being a well-respected Harper and scholar.  Without him, Ulraunt thought you were gonna get -everyone- killed!
What’s this about Gorion being a Harper and a scholar?
HULL: Gorion -was- a scholar, kid.  He did a -lotta- research in Candlekeep’s library.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: As for a Harper, I heard they’re some sorta secret do-gooder society.  You’d probably know more about what he was doing with those Harpers.
Get everyone killed?  Ulraunt -sure- knows how to -stand back- and -not care!-
HULL: it ain’t every day that assassins just -show up- in Candlekeep and start trying to kill people, kid.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Yeah, Ulraunt’s an ass, but this time he might be right.
Ulraunt?  What?
HULL: Ulraunt’s in charge of Candlekeep, kid.  We nicknamed him “The Old Buzzard” because he’s old, he’s pissy, and he seems to buzz around.  We called him an ass because he is one.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Unlike, say, Gorion or Tethtoril, I’m pretty sure nobody -really- likes Ulraunt.  People listen to him -only- because he’s in charge.  That’s why we called him an ass.
HULL: You’re welcome, kid.
I still don’t like it.
HULL: I didn’t write those rules, kid.  If I did, all guards would get unlimited free ale from Winthrop!
What about Gorion’s body?
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, the guard knows and Fuller’s in charge of giving him a decent burial back in Candlekeep.
Hull and Company Visit Gorion’s Death Site
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Sorry you had to see this deadly light show in person, kid.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Imoen is in the party.>
IMOEN: Sorry, <CHARNAME>.  (Use the voiced line from here.)
Why can’t we just -resurrect- him?
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, I’ve hung around the priests of Oghma long enough to know that a man’s body needs to be intact enough to resurrect, -and- that the spirit must be free and willing to return.  Fuller’s already on it, kid.
So you’re saying he may not -want- to be resurrected?
HULL: There’s that chance, kid.  I also heard that death from just being too old prevents the spell from working.  Maybe Gorion knew he was about to die, so he just wanted this one last journey with you.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Love can do that to a man, kid.
His death still hurts.
HULL: <Hull sighs.>  I know.  I know.
I feel over Gorion’s death already.  I’m no longer -just- Gorion’s child!
HULL: Good!  I was never good at this whole ‘mourning’ thing.
Let’s just leave.
HULL: Alright.  <END DIALOG WITH HULL.>
BG1: MEET HULL POST-CANDLEKEEP CATACOMBS IN ELFSONG TAVERN
Dialog with Hull in Elfsong Tavern Post-Candlekeep Return
<Hull is at a table in the Elfsong Tavern in Baldur’s Gate city.>
HULL: Kid!  Yer back!  Good!  You didn’t keep me waiting!
When did you arrive here, Hull?
HULL: Well, kid, I think we left Candlekeep about the same time.
How long were you gonna wait here for me?
HULL: Long enough, kid.  Not forever, though.
Why did you just leave me in Candlekeep?
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, I wanted ya to play along, ‘n’ you did.  Good!
Hull, that isn’t what I asked.  Answer the question!
HULL: Kid, I got pulled into the politics of Candlekeep.  I had to explain a -lot- of important ‘n’ unpleasant stuff to certain people who had facial expressions alternating among wanting to banish me, kill me, and thank me.
HULL: Candlekeep has some handy records now stating that the violence in the library wasn’t our crime.  My rank wasn’t hurt, but I wasn’t promoted either.
Does this mean you’re still part of Candlekeep’s guard?
HULL: Loosely, yeah.  You think you left the Candlekeep guard, but it doesn’t leave you so easily.  Or somethin’ like that.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Really, kid, it means that if we get called back to Candlekeep for some reason, I may need to explain even -more- stuff!  For now, we’re on the road again!
Thanks, Hull!
HULL: Yeah, and thank you for surviving one of the worst enemies in this world, crooked politicians!
Anything else you did for me while you were there?
HULL: I asked that Tethtoril find ya, kid.  I heard he went to yer cell ‘n’ warped ya to Gorion’s favorite reading spot.
Was I taken to Gorion’s shrine or burial area?
HULL: <Hull shrugs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, that’s just my guess.
Hull, Tethtoril warped me to the dangerous catacombs beneath Candlekeep!  There were monsters and doppelgangers!
HULL: Kid, I’m sorry he put ya there, but you survived.  That’s what matters for now.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And those... things probably weren’t there when the guards last checked the area.  Something’s up, kid, that wants to bring you down!
Why didn’t Tethtoril just warp me -outside- Candlekeep?
HULL: I dunno, kid.  I told him to get ya odda trouble.  That’s how he took it.
Why was Ulraunt such an ass?
HULL: <Hull snickers.>  Kid, that’s what happens when some proud guy in charge needs friends and a relaxing drink.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Or maybe just many swift kicks in the nuts.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But really kid, he’s generally mean-spirited to -everyone- he doesn’t highly trust.  Or that’s trying to pay him.
I’m ready to dispense some indiscriminate justice, or maybe just get a drink.  Either way, let’s team up again.
HULL: Here, kid.  Let’s celebrate with a drink or few.  We’ve earned it!
<The party gains 20G.  Hull joins the party.>  <END DIALOG.>
Hull, I need some time before we travel together again.  We may talk later.
HULL: I understand, kid.  We’ve been through a lot.  Take a break ‘n’ call me when yer ready.
<END DIALOG.>
BG1: ALBERT & RUFIE
Once the party accepted the Albert And His Dog quest
<If Hull is in the party>
HULL: Kid, I just found it odd that Albert was out here by himself.
At least he never had assassins chase him out of Candlekeep!
HULL: Huh.  That might be why!
Hull, do you plan to adopt Albert, too?
HULL: <Hull smiles.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Nah.  Being -your- uncle is enough.
But he’s so cute!
HULL: He may be a cutie now, kid, but some day soon he’ll -stop- being that cute kid we know.
I see your point.
HULL: Good.
I know it seemed suspicious, Hull.  What should we do?
HULL: <Hull shrugs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Let’s just find this dog.
[If Grey the Dog or/and Haiass is in the party] Do you think he’d object if we gave him our dog instead?
HULL: He’d know pretty quick it wasn’t Rufie.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Besides, his dog is probably near and I don’t wanna just give ours up so easily.
Let’s not dwell on it any more.  Onward!
HULL: Yeah!  Onward!  <END DIALOG.>
Finding Rufie the Dog - Party Has Chew Toy
<If Hull is in the party>
HULL: I think that’s Rufie, Albert’s dog!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Here, Rufie!  Here, boy!
<END DIALOG.>
Finding Rufie the Dog - Party Lacks Chew Toy
<If Hull is in the party>
HULL: Wait!  That dog doesn’t seem friendly!
<END DIALOG.>
Killing Rufie the Dog - Party Has Chew Toy
<If Hull is in the party>
HULL: Kid, killing that dog was just -mean!-
Hull, something seemed wrong about this whole situation, like it was a trap.
HULL: I get that, but killing Rufie like that was too much!
HULL: Go tell Albert that!
Let’s just go, Hull.
HULL: Yeah.  Let’s.  <END DIALOG.>
Killing Rufie the Dog - Party Lacks Chew Toy
<If Hull is in the party>
HULL: Kid, sorry we had to kill that aggressive dog.
Hull, something seemed wrong about this whole situation, like it was a trap.
HULL: I dunno, kid.
HULL: <Hull shrugs.>
It was coming right for us!  What else should we have done?
HULL: Maybe feed it or find it an owner.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull shrugs.>
Let’s just go, Hull.
HULL: Yeah.  Let’s.  <END DIALOG.>
Talking with Albert after finding Rufie the Dog
<If Hull is in the party>
ALBERT: Time to go home, Rufie. You'll like the Nine Hells much better than these cold climes.
<END DIALOG WITH ALBERT.>
--START NEW DIALOG WITH HULL--
HULL: You just saw that transformation, right?
[Lie] No.
HULL: Oh, c’mon!  You know what happened!  <END DIALOG.>
<blink rapidly>
HULL: You made yer point, kid!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Good!  I -know- I wasn’t the only one to see what weird stuff just happened!  <END DIALOG.>
Yeah, Hull.  Why?
HULL: Good!  I -know- I wasn’t the only one to see what weird stuff just happened!  <END DIALOG.>
Hull, I’m sorry we went through with this.
HULL: I’m not!  I’m gonna remember this for a -long time!-  <END DIALOG.>
Let’s just go, Hull.
HULL: Yeah.  Let’s.  <END DIALOG.>
Talking with Albert after killing Rufie the Dog
<If Hull is in the party>
ALBERT: You... you killed Rufie! I can smell his blood on you! What kind of monsters would do that to a helpless little puppy?! The clan is not going to be pleased! They were right about you Prime people! I'm not gonna trust your kind no more!
<END DIALOG.>
<After Albert transforms.>
HULL: Uhh...
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Maybe killing that ‘dog’ was really the -right- thing to do!
HULL: Oh, c’mon!  You know what happened!
<blink rapidly>
HULL: You made yer point, kid!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Yeah, kid!  I felt it too!  <END DIALOG.>
I agree, Hull.  Why?
HULL: Maybe we just killed a fiend in disguise.  <END DIALOG.>
Hull, I’m sorry we went through with this.
HULL: I’m not!  I’m gonna remember this for a -long time!-  <END DIALOG.>
Let’s just go, Hull.
HULL: Yeah.  Let’s.  <END DIALOG.>
BG1: BALDUR’S GATE CITY
These mods allow parties to visit Candlekeep out of the expected sequence without breaking the game.
OlvynTweaks AKA METweaks is a mod that allows reentry into Candlekeep via the catacombs starting in the prolog.
Framed is a mod that makes visiting Candlekeep possible before the Iron Throne building.  Framed changes chapters 5 & 6.
Dialog with Bill the Ducal Palace Gate Guard
<If Hull is in the party and the party doesn’t have an invitation.>
BILL: Greetings. I assume you've come to the palace for the coronation of Sarevok? Well then, I'll need to see your invitations.
<The party chooses an option that says they have no invitations or they’ll leave.>
BILL: No invitations?  No entry!  Scram!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Sir, this is a matter of life and death!  The fate of the world depends on us getting in that palace!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BILL: Blah, blah.  I’ve heard it all from you nobles, adventurers, and wannabes.  EVERYTHING is ALWAYS a matter of life and death and national importance!  It’s like EVERY nobleman who THINKS he’s something believes hurting his pride will cause the city to fall and Elminster to call meteors to smite him dead!  Hasn’t happened yet.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BILL: Now, if you -belong- here, you’ll show me your -invitation!-  Beat it!
Why not try to persuade him again to let us in?
HULL: Kid, even if it worked, there are probably guards inside that would check.  The nobles would be suspicious if we just crashed their party, even if it’s for a good cause!  It may just be easier to get an invitation, -however- we get it.
Let’s just move on, then.
HULL: Gotcha.  <END DIALOG.>
Dialog with Flaming Fist Mercenary (gate guard) in Wyrm’s Crossing, normally first met in Chapter 5 after crossing the bridge
<Note that this replaces the dialog choice normally available.>
MERCENARY: The entrance tax is 6 gold pieces for each party of travelers.  Please announce your point of origin.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: Candlekeep, sir.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
MERCENARY: Be on your way, then.
<Party loses 6G.>  <END DIALOG.>
Dialog with Flaming Fist Enforcer in Chapter 7 (being wanted for murder)
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: We’d better go with ‘em, kid.
Dialog with Angelo Dosan in Chapter 7
<Append this to the dialog if Hull is in the party but Shar Teel isn’t in the party.>
ANGELO: Now that we are done with all of these pleasantries, I will make my decision. I had thought hard and long on what sentence I should give if you should be delivered into my hands. The choice is an obvious one. For the charges of murder, theft, arson, rape, and many other assorted crimes, I declare that each of you shall be taken to the Bazaar, where you shall hang by the neck until you are dead.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party and he was in the party when <CHARNAME> was arrested in Candlekeep.>
HULL: Sir, as a lifelong servant of Candlekeep about as long as you’ve served the Flaming Fist, -and- as an eyewitness to the events in Candlekeep when the mage Rieltar attacked us unprovoked, I must ask you a question!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<Angelo raises his eyebrow in suspicion toward Hull.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Do you feel lucky?  Hmm?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ANGELO: <Angelo turns to Hull.>  Are you threatening me?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: No, sir.  But I am -warning- you that Candlekeep, home of the densest population of sages and casters in this part of Faerun, has on -official record- that there was a conspiracy regarding the brutal murder of Gorion, one of Candlekeep’s beloved sages, by the politicos of Baldur’s Gate.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And here we stand, in the presence the only living foster child of the murdered Gorion who was witness to this murder, and whom the great sage Elminster has met -in person- with -great interest- and -in this very city.-  You can ask your guards that saw Elminster leave the city via the main gate soon after Wyrm’s Crossing was accessible again.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: So, sir, -do you feel lucky?-  Are you about to bring down the wrath of Elminster and the many, MANY casters of Candlekeep by attempting to kill us and claim you have the legal right?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull stares Angelo down, silently.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ANGELO: <Angelo meets Hull’s gaze then flinches.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ANGELO: Go, and don’t cause trouble in my city, or I WILL bring down the law on you!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ANGELO: <Angelo makes some quick hand motions and whistles.  He tosses you a small pouch.>
<The party receives 500G.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thank you, sir.
<The party also avoids imprisonment and the plot progresses, OR the party is imprisoned but a guard soon frees them.>  <END DIALOG.>
Dialog with Belt AKA Duke Belt in Chapter 7 (Coronation Post-Sarevok Escape)
<Append this to the dialog if Hull is in the party.>
BELT: I think it is in your best interest to hunt Sarevok and kill him before he does the same to you.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: FINALLY!  Someone around here talks SENSE!  Thank you, your grace!
Dialog with Voleta Stiletto in Chapter 7 (Thief Maze Entry)
<Append this to the dialog if Hull is in the party.>
VOLETA: Where does it lead?  You want to follow him?  You'll be dead before you get a hundred feet, but I guess it's your life.  The maze apparently connects to the Undercity, but I ain't heard of nobody that has gone through and lived to tell.  It's kinda meant as a decoy retreat of sorts.  Lead intruders down here and they think it's the way out.  Usually you don't see them again after that.  Ain't seen a live person leave ever. She's full o' undead and kept clean by jellies.  Better get a move on if you hope to catch them.  I'm just going to stay here and catch my breath.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thanks, m’lady.
BG1: CANDLEKEEP RETURN
(AREAS ACCESSIBLE IN PROLOG)
These mods allow parties to visit Candlekeep out of the expected sequence without breaking the game.
OlvynTweaks AKA METweaks is a mod that allows reentry into Candlekeep via the catacombs starting in the prolog, but only the Catacombs.  The interior of Candlekeep proper isn’t accessible.
Framed is a mod that makes visiting Candlekeep possible before the Iron Throne building.  Framed changes chapters 5 & 6.
Dialog with Hull & Party upon reentering Candlekeep’s main gate
<Hull turns to <CHARNAME>.>
HULL: Alright, kid.  If we somehow get separated, let’s meet at the Elfsong Tavern in Baldur’s Gate city.
Must you sound so much like Gorion?
HULL: Yeah, kid.  I did volunteer to take his place.
Hull, how long were you planning to say that?  It sounds so rehearsed!
HULL: Just today, kid.
Why the Elfsong Tavern?
HULL: Kid, it’s a famous place in Baldur’s Gate where I can get info ‘n’ sample summa their house specialty drinks!  I’ll get there even if I gotta swim!
HULL: <Hull smiles and winks.>
Dialog with Dreppin
<Append this to Dreppin’s return to Candlekeep dialog.>
I’ve been gone awhile since assassins have been after me.  Have anything to make me feel better, Dreppin?
<Dreppin looks at you, astounded and amazed!>
DREPPIN: <CHARNAME>, the rumors ARE true!  You’re powerful enough for someone to want dead!  I don’t think I’d want that sort of responsibility!
What was Gorion like when he was alive?
DREPPIN: <Dreppin looks at you and shrugs.>  I don’t know if we ever talked.  He’s a sage.  I’m a stable hand.  Probably the closest I got to helping him was tanning hides to make leather book bindings.
[If <CHARNAME> finished the quest Dreppin’s Cow] What happened to your cow? 
DREPPIN: Nessa?  That antidote you gave her didn’t do much.  Maybe I overfed her with that stuff, but she just puked it up.  She just slept off whatever sickness she had.
I thought you were good with animals!
DREPPIN: Well, I am!  I was just so worried about Nessa - she’s been my best cash cow - that I mighta overdid it.
[If <CHARNAME> started but didn’t finish the quest Dreppin’s Cow] What happened to your cow?
DREPPIN: Nessa?  Well, <CHARNAME>, she got over it anyway.  Took her less time than I expected, but some good naps ‘n’ good laps around Candlekeep fixed her up, right as rain!  Whatever that means!
Dialog with Fuller
HULL: <Hull turns to Fuller and salutes.  Fuller looks a bit surprised but quickly returns the salute.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Fuller turns to Hull.>
FULLER: Hull, I’ve missed ya, buddy.  The biggest change since you left was drinkin’ alone after work!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Fuller, I missed you too.  I sorta tried takin’ over Gorion’s role as a foster father.  The closest I got was as a bodyguard, friend, or uncle.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
FULLER: <Fuller turns to <CHARNAME>.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
FULLER: Kid, <CHARNAME>, I’m sorry about what happened with Gorion.  We hauled his corpse back to Candlekeep and used Speak with Dead, but he didn’t wanna be revived.  He said he knew he didn’t have much time.  <Fuller sighs.>  We gave him a proper burial.
Did he know who attacked us after leaving Candlekeep?
FULLER: He said something about a “Savveric.”  Somethin’ like that.  Sounded like a name, but Gorion refused to say any more about it.
Did he say what afterlife he’s in?
FULLER: He’s happily resting in Oghma’s embrace, just like most of Candlekeep’s dead.
Did he say what he recommended I do in life?
FULLER: The only words I recognized were, “Friendly Arm Inn,” “Baldur’s Gate City,” and “Bhaal.”
What do you mean by “Bhaal?”
FULLER: Some sages around here mentioned he was the dead god of murder.  Cyric is the new god of murder.  They’re all evil to the core!
More specifics, please!
FULLER: <CHARNAME>, I don’t really know.  Maybe some Bhaal fanatics tried killing you around here because they thought Bhaal told ‘em to!
[If the party finished the prolog quest An Errand for Fuller] Glad to have me back, Fuller?
FULLER: Kid, I’m glad yer safe here for now.  Thanks again for getting those bolts.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Imoen is in the party.>
FULLER: You too, Imoen.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: Thanks!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
FULLER: Here, <CHARNAME>.  Take this.  The guards put together a small collection for you if you ever came back.  We know it’s dangerous out there and Ulraunt was being an ass about the rules.
<The party gains 200G.>
[If the party DIDN’T finish the prolog quest An Errand for Fuller] Glad to have me back, Fuller?
<An Errand for Fuller quest is considered uncompletable now.>
FULLER: Kid, I’m glad yer safe here for now, even if you didn’t get me those crossbow bolts.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Imoen is in the party.>
FULLER: You too, Imoen.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: Thanks!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
FULLER: Here, <CHARNAME>.  Take this.  The guards put together a small collection for you if you ever came back.
<The party gains 150G.>
If you’re so glad to see me, why is the gate guard still demanding I bring a rare book for entry?
FULLER: Kid, I didn’t make the rules, the casters here did.  It keeps the undesirables out, but I’m sorry it kept you out too.
That’s all for now, Fuller.
FULLER: Thanks for stoppin’ by, all of you!  Goodbye then.  Do stay safe!
<This dialog plays only once and the gift is only given once.>
FULLER: And kid, take these.  I was gonna use ‘em on Gorion, but he didn’t need ‘em.
<The party gains a Scroll of Raise Dead and a Scroll of Cure Critical Wounds.>
Dialog with the Gatekeeper/Gatewarden (“Chief”)
<If Hull is in the party.>
<Hull turns to the Gatewarden and salutes.  The Gatewarden quickly returns the salute.>
GATEWARDEN: I hope you’re not DRUNK, Hull!  You’re late enough for work already!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Sir-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Imoen is in the party.>
GATEWARDEN: And YOU, Imoen!  Better not be STEALING anything today!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: Hey!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Imoen is in the party.>
GATEWARDEN: Volo!  Better not be on your famous exaggerations around here!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: My apologies.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GATEWARDEN: You, <CHARNAME>, I thought we’d seen the LAST of you!  How DARE you return here?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: Sir-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GATEWARDEN: <The Gatewarden sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GATEWARDEN: I’m just giving you a hard time.  <He snickers.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GATEWARDEN: <CHARNAME>, I’m glad you survived whatever or whoever killed Gorion, and I’m glad you’ve done well in life since then.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GATEWARDEN: So, what more is there ta say?
Do you normally give people a hard time?
GATEWARDEN: Yes, <CHARNAME>, but only if I feel like it.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: -Especially- if a guard shows up late for work, or drunk, or unprepared, or falls asleep on the job.
Sounds like -you- got -lots- of that, Hull!
HULL: Yeah.  I deserved -some- of it.  I saw Fuller ‘n’ the other guards get screamed at, yammered at, slapped, forced to lick a cow... and more.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Respect the chief and you’ll be fine around him.
<Append these dialog options to his normal dialog.>
After I left with Gorion, why not just let me in like you did your outer guards?  I lived here for YEARS!
GATEWARDEN: Rules are rules, kid, and “our rules are very strict” as you’ve probably heard a hundred times.  The casters in charge made ‘em.  I just enforce ‘em.  Sorry, <CHARNAME>.
What happened to Gorion’s body?
GATEWARDEN: I didn’t oversee that, kid.  Fuller and the priesthood around here did.  I heard Gorion just didn’t want to be raised and he was comfortable where he was.
[If the Gatewarden has a Ring of Protection II on him] Considering I survived trying to be killed by more stuff that I want to think about - including IN CANDLEKEEP - what can you give me to make me feel safer?
GATEWARDEN: <The Gatewarden sighs as he reaches for something on his hand.>  Here, <CHARNAME>.  Use this and maybe you’ll feel better.  I won it in a card game from some guy from Amn.
<The party receives a Ring of Protection II.>
[If the Gatewarden DOESN’T have a Ring of Protection II on him, meaning it was stolen by the party] Considering I survived trying to be killed by more stuff that I want to think about - including IN CANDLEKEEP - what can you give me to make me feel safer?
GATEWARDEN: <The Gatewarden sighs as he reaches for his coin purse.>  Here, <CHARNAME>.  Use this and maybe you’ll feel better.  I won it in a card game from some guy from Amn.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GATEWARDEN: Hmm.  I was about to give you something else, but it seems I left it elsewhere.
<The party receives 500G.>
[If the party received a Ring of Protection II from Gatewarden] Should we be concerned about people thinking your ring is stolen?
GATEWARDEN: The guard already knows that if they see someone else with my ring and I’m not calling “Thief!” that I lost it fair and square.
What’s been happening around here since Gorion and I left?
GATEWARDEN: Not much, kid.  Things have been happening pretty much as usual.
[Hull is in the party] Bye for now.
Bye then.  <Hull and the Gatewarden salute.>  <END DIALOG.>
[Hull ISN’T in the party] Bye for now.
Bye then.  <The Gatewarden nods at you.>  <END DIALOG.>
Dialog with the Keeper of the Portal - Party Isn’t Allowed Back Into Candlekeep BUT has the note - NOT the quest - Hull on Tap (Candlekeep Region) OR Hull on Tap (Baldur’s Gate City)
<Append this dialog upon the party giving an item to the Portal Keeper to obtain entry into Candlekeep.  This also accounts for the items from Framed.>
Sir, please let me in.  Hull from Candlekeep wrote something he thinks will be valuable to Candlekeep!
KEEPER: Give me that!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KEEPER: Hull wrote a guide to -beers- in the region?  I should’ve expected that from him.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: Thank you, sir!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KEEPER: <The Keeper of the Portal sighs and shakes his head.>  Bah!  Even Volo’s guides were more entertaining than this!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: Hey!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Volo is in the party, regardless of others.>
VOLO: Thank you, sir!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KEEPER: That wasn’t a compliment.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: I’m -sorry- that you felt that way!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KEEPER: This isn’t the sort of ‘rare book’ that is heavily sought by those inside.  Nice try, but I can’t let you in because of this.
<END DIALOG.>
Dialog with the Keeper of the Portal - Party Is Allowed Back Into Candlekeep
<Append this dialog upon the party giving an item to the Portal Keeper to obtain entry into Candlekeep.  This also accounts for the items from Framed.>
KEEPER: You have met the requirements to gain entry to our most holy library.  It is fine to see the child of Gorion once again within these hallowed grounds.  Please have your less civilized friends refrain from causing trouble.  We are very strict with the letter of the law as you well know, <CHARNAME>.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Volo is in the party.>
KEEPER: And Volo, you have been here enough that you know the rules.  Let’s just say that if there -is- trouble around here because of you, you may not live long enough to write about it!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Well, -that- would be tragic, but I understand, sir!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party.>
KEEPER: Hull, as a member of Candlekeep’s guard, I am keeping you -especially- accountable to ensure the lot of you cause no trouble!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Aye, sir.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull salutes.>
<END DIALOG.>
Dialog with Phlydia
<Append this to Phyldia’s return to Candlekeep dialog.>
[If Phlydia has a Scroll Case] Phyldia!  I’m back!  Assassins wanted me dead in Candlekeep and have been after me since I left!  What can you spare to make me feel better?
PHLYDIA: <She fumbles around in her robe for a bit before pulling out a scroll case.>  Uh, here <CHARNAME>.  I was trying to give you a copy of my new favorite book, but where is it?  Oh, this came out instead.  Sorry about the assassins.
<Party gains a Scroll Case.>
[If Phlydia lacks a Scroll Case, meaning the party stole it] Phyldia!  I’m back!  Assassins wanted me dead in Candlekeep and have been after me since I left!  What can you spare to make me feel better?
PHLYDIA: <She fumbles around in her robe for a bit before pulling out a book.>  Uh, here <CHARNAME>.  This is my new favorite book.  I just finished it!  I’m not normally into violent stories, but this one was just told -so well!-
<Party gains a copy of the book History of the Dead Three.>
What was Gorion like when he was alive?
PHLYDIA: Oh, <CHARNAME>, he was an avid reader!  We talked a lot about literature, and he challenged me to read a new book every week.
What did Gorion tell you about Elminster?
PHLYDIA: Elminster?  The famous wizard and Chosen of Mystra?
Yes, yes, THAT one!
PHLYDIA: Elminster inspired Gorion to pursue further studies in wizardry, and inspired his love of reading!  Elminster wanted to take care of the world, so maybe that made Gorion want to take care of you!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: We come from good stock, kid!
No, Phylidia, Elminster the stable hand!
PHLYDIA: Nothing.  I didn’t know Elminster did that sort of thing!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PHLYDIA: <She pauses a moment.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PHLYDIA: Oh.  -Now- I get it!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PHLYDIA: <Proceed as if the party had chosen ‘yes.’>
What did Gorion especially like to read?
PHLYDIA: He liked books about gods, prophecies, and the Time of Troubles.  Yes, I think that’s what it’s called!  He was a wizard, but he didn’t read many spellbooks when I was around.
Did he tell you why?
PHLYDIA: <She shrugs.>  Oh, no, not really.  He... How do I put it?  I think he just liked that we lived in an -exciting world- and -interesting times- and wanted to be ready to match wits with all the intellectuals around here.
When you say you finished a book, what do you mean?
PHLYDIA: Usually, I just read a book once.  If I -really- enjoy it, I’ll read it again and look for all the details and subtext I missed the -first- time!
[If <CHARNAME> finished the quest Phlydia’s Book] What happened to your book I found for you? 
PHLYDIA: Oh, I finished it.  Now, where did I put it?
[If <CHARNAME> started but didn’t finish the quest Phlydia’s Book] What happened to that book you wanted me to get?
PHLYDIA: Dreppin gave it back.  I think.  But I finished it.
Dialog with the Priest of Oghma
<Append this to the Priest’s normal dialog.>
What happened to Gorion after he died?  He was my foster father as you should know!
PRIEST: <CHARNAME>?  Oh, yes, and I’m sorry for your loss.  <The priest sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRIEST: I did my typical Speak with Dead to determine how to handle his case.  He -specifically- asked not to be resurrected.  He was -quite- happy where he was in Oghma’s loving embrace, but he also said he was quite close to the end of his physical life anyway, or past the ‘point of no return’ as some would say.
Considering the pain I’ve gone through because of Gorion’s death, do you have any gifts to make me feel better?
PRIEST: <The priest sighs.>  Gorion set aside some divine scrolls for emergency use.  I gave them to Fuller of the Candlekeep guard since none of your kin was around to claim them, <CHARNAME>.
Where’s Gorion’s body?
PRIEST: Gorion’s body was laid to rest with the rest of Candlekeep’s dead sages.  All the proper precautions were in place to ensure he wasn’t reanimated or otherwise defiled!
Was there a funeral?
PRIEST: Yes, <CHARNAME>.  It was a friendly gathering where we remembered his adventuring life, his contributions to Candlekeep’s library, and to a much lesser degree, you.  I’m... sorry you weren’t there for it.
What did people say about me at the funeral?
PRIEST: Not much, I’m afraid.  You are - or were, depending on how you envision it - his foster child and he sacrificed himself to save you.  He saw great potential in you, and seemed to adopt you after it was reported he could not physically bear children of his own.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Imoen is in the party.>
IMOEN: What about me?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRIEST: Oh?  <CHARNAME> and you, Imoen, were each like footnotes at the funeral.  He loved each of you, and he did his best to love you two equally.
What else did Gorion say?  Anything for me?
PRIEST: <The priest sighs.>  Yes, <CHARNAME>, Gorion had -plenty- more to say.  I warn you that it may be unpleasant to hear.  Do you still want to hear it?
Not this time.
PRIEST: Very well then.  Maybe later.
Tell me everything he told you.
PRIEST: <CHARNAME>, let’s not mince words, here.  Gorion was simultaneously proud and pleased to have done the best job he could at being your foster father, and he wished you well on your journey of life...
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRIEST: ...but he also warned that those of Bhaal’s lineage -will- be a danger to you!  Perhaps the assassins that were sent to kill you in Candlekeep worshiped Bhaal, the dead God of Murder.  Perhaps they were followers of Cyric, the new God of Murder.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRIEST: He wanted you to head to the Friendly Arm Inn and meet with his old pen pals Jaheira and Khalid whom he greatly trusted, so you - maybe also with them - would be able to escape to the far country of Amn and meet with the Harpers, away from all the threat of assassinations.  His backup plan was to adventure with you until you were ready to handle things without him, for the world outside Candlekeep is dangerous as you should know.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Jaheira is in the party.>
JAHEIRA: So -that- was Gorion’s plan all along?  That sounds like what we’ve been doing!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Khalid is in the party.>
KHALID: Y-y-yes.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRIEST: His plans for you changed when he was ambushed by Sarevok, the heavily-armored man who helped kill him.  He believed Khalid and Jaheira would protect you and help you find your place in the world if you let them.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRIEST: Gorion also believed that there may be something about you worthy of even Elminster’s attention, but he said no more on how nor why.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: Whoa!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRIEST: Ultimately, <CHARNAME>, he was trying to prepare you for your lot in life, which seemed -far- greater than just staying in Candlekeep!  Destiny has a way of finding us all and leading us on it if we cooperate.  And don’t -try- to find Elminster.  He -will- find you when he wants to!
Why didn’t Gorion just teleport us to safety?
PRIEST: <CHARNAME>, that he didn’t say.  I surmise that he either did not know the teleport spell - which is QUITE unlikely since we are in Candlekeep - or he was afraid of his consequences.  Teleport still has a chance of failure or arriving off-target, however slight, and being sent to the bottom of a lake or beside an active volcano is a VERY quick way to die an embarrassing death!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRIEST: <He sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRIEST: I know.  I’ve treated both.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRIEST: Perhaps Gorion was secretly a Wild Mage, though if he were, he was EXCELLENT at controlling his magic!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRIEST: More likely, <CHARNAME>, Gorion -much- preferred the possibility of dying a hero than succumbing to poison, disease, or physical decay.  In that, Gorion succeeded.
Dialog with Reevor After Returning to Candlekeep
<If the party started Reevor’s Storehouse but didn’t finish the quest.>
REEVOR: I trusted ye, <CHARNAME>, to -quickly- finish the cleanin’ of m’ storehouse!  I finished yer job, but the rats kept comin’ back!
<If the party finished Reevor’s Storehouse quest.>
REEVOR: At least ye cleaned up those damned rats!  They were so disgustin’ that even the -cats- weren’t hungry!
<Append this dialog to Reevor’s normal dialog.>
[This dialog option happens once only]  Assassins came for me in Candlekeep and have trailed me since!  Quick!  What can you give me to ensure that I survive and they don’t wipe out all of Candlekeep with them?
REEVOR: <Reevor grunts as he removes his cloak and throws it lazily in your direction.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
REEVOR: <A Cloak of Nondetection and Oil of Speed each fall to the ground beside Reevor.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
REEVOR: Take ‘em before I change m’ mind!
Bye, then.
REEVOR: <Reevor grunts at you as he notices you leave.>
Dialog with Tethtoril
<If Hull is in the party.>
<Hull turns to Tethtoril and salutes.  Tethtoril slowly and calmly nods to Hull, then to the rest of the party.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TETHTORIL: Oh, child, you’ve returned.  Shall we continue your lessons?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TETHTORIL: <He blinks a moment, shakes his head slowly, then smiles.>  Nevermind.  Can I help you?
<Append this dialog to Tethtoril’s normal dialog.>
What can you tell me about Gorion’s death or what we wanted for my life?
TETHTORIL: Oh, child, I’m sorry.  I thought he told -you.-  I... don’t have any new information.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TETHTORIL: <He sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TETHTORIL: The priesthood around Candlekeep would know more.
[One time only] Considering assassins were after me in Candlekeep and I’ve survived the return trip, do you have any welcome home gifts?
TETHTORIL: Oh, child, yes.  I have been examining these scrolls for transcription.  I finished soon before you returned.  You may have these.
<The party gains 1 scroll each of Find Familiar, Haste, Protection from Normal Weapons, Protection from Petrification, and Stoneskin.>
<Pick one.>
Thanks, Tethtoril.
TETHTORIL: Child, you are most welcome.
They won’t bring Gorionn back, but they’re -something!-
TETHTORIL: <He smiles and nods.>
Why were assassins after me in Candlekeep?
TETHTORIL: <CHARNAME>, child, I simply do not know.  I heard they were fanatics of Bhaal, the dead god of murder.  These assassins seemed to have no interest in anyone else in Candlekeep.
How did the assassins enter Candlekeep, anyway?
TETHTORIL: Child, most likely they were with someone who paid the entrance fee.
<Tethtoril’s face moves slightly in a way that indicates he has another idea.>
Spit it out, old man!
TETHTORIL: <He disregards the rudeness and continues.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<Continue the dialog as if the party had chosen the respectful dialog option below.> 
Tethtoril, what are you thinking?
TETHTORIL: Candlekeep has catacombs where we bury the dead.  Perhaps they snuck in from there.
What’s with you and scrolls anyway?
TETHTORIL: Transcribing scrolls has been a fascination of mine from an early age, <CHARNAME>.  It is a necessary duty and an honor I take seriously.
What was Gorion like when he was alive?
TETHTORIL: <He smiles.>  Child, Gorion was an adventuring Wizard.  He told me he traveled along the coast from Icewind Dale in the north to Calminshan in the south.  Gorion fought the red dragon Firkraag and wounded it, but never slew it.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TETHTORIL: In his travels, Gorion became friends with two half-elves, Khalid and Jaheira, whom his party saved from some vampires and wights after they had been captured.  They seemed trustworthy - and perhaps Gorion was eager for some adult company - and they became pen pals.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Khalid and Jaheira are in the party.>
<Khalid and Jaheira nod along.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TETHTORIL: And then, in a time that seemed like just a few days ago, Gorion adopted you, <CHARNAME>, and raised you as his own.  Imoen came to Candlekeep a decade later and he raised her here too.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Imoen is in the party.>
IMOEN: Better than being treated like a street rat!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TETHTORIL: As for your birth parents, <CHARNAME>, all Gorion said was that your mother died in childbirth giving life to you.  As for Imoen’s parentage, he said nothing.  Winthrop adopted Imoen as Gorion adopted you, <CHARNAME>.
What did Gorion do around Candlekeep when he wasn’t raising Imoen and me?
TETHTORIL: Gorion shared the duties of transcribing books and scrolls as many of us here do, child.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TETHTORIL: He was most -fascinated- with prophecies and the Time of Troubles, the period of our world’s history when gods were stripped of their divinity and walked the world as mortals.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<Tethtoril pauses a moment and ponders.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TETHTORIL: Come to think of it, child, he seemed -fascinated- with the prophecy of Alaundo.  One of the chanters around Candlekeep mentioned something from that prophecy, though I’ve heard it so many times, child, that I’ve blocked it from memory.
Who else normally traveled with Gorion?
TETHTORIL: <He shakes his head.>  I’m sorry, child.  Gorion never spoke much of the specifics.
He was a member of the Harpers, a secretive organization that tried fostering the best in people and thwarting evil wherever they went.
What connection did Gorion have with Elminster?
TETHTORIL: Gorion told me once in passing that Elminster was also a Harper and his advisor in the Harpers on certain matters.  He never mentioned what, but I just assumed, <CHARNAME>, that Gorion learned some of his spells directly from Elminster - or at least inherited some of his scrolls, as the case may be.
Bye for now.
TETHTORIL: Farewell, child.
<If the party started the quest Firebeard’s Scroll but didn’t finish it in the prolog, play this part of the dialog only once.> 
TETHTORIL: Oh, child?  Did you return Mr. Elvenhair’s Identify scroll to him?
[If Firebead’s Scroll quest isn’t complete] [Lie] Yes.
TETHTORIL: Good.  Gorion raised you well.
<END DIALOG.>
[If Firebead’s Scroll quest is complete] Yes.
TETHTORIL: Good.  Gorion raised you well.
<END DIALOG.>
[If Firebead’s Scroll quest is complete] [Lie] No.
TETHTORIL: Oh, child.  I know you’ve been busy.  I prepared a spare for him just in case.  Please give this to him when you see him.  He lives in Beregost.
<Party receives an Identify scroll.>  <END DIALOG.>
[If Firebead’s Scroll quest isn’t complete] No.
TETHTORIL: Oh, child.  I know you’ve been busy.  I prepared a spare for him just in case.  Please give this to him when you see him.  He lives in Beregost.
<Party receives an Identify scroll.>  <END DIALOG.>
Dialog with Winthrop
<Append these to Winthrop’s dialog tree after the party returns to Candlekeep.>
Winthrop, I’m back!  I survived assassination attempts and I’d like a hug!
WINTHROP: <Winthrop offers you a warm, damp, fat hug.>
What was your reaction when you heard assassins were after me?
WINTHROP: My hair turned white for an hour then fell out!  I was so hungry I couldn’t eat!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Imoen is in the party.>
IMOEN: <Imoen snickers.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
Got any presents for me, hmm?
<This dialog tree plays only once.>
WINTHROP: Oh, yes.  <Winthrop lets out a slow, loud fart.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<Those in Winthrop’s inn who heard the fart quickly promptly cover their faces!>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
WINTHROP: Ya came here for toys, kid.  Ol’ Winthrop has ya covered.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<The party receives 3 Potions of Mirrored Eyes.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Imoen is in the party.>
IMOEN: Thanks, Puffgutts!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
WINTHROP: That old mage Firebeard paid for his stay with these.  I tried one.  They tasted like melted glass!  I’m not stockin’ any more of these!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party.>
WINTHROP: Hull, this one’s fer you, mustache man!  Don’t spend ‘em all in one night!  <Winthrop smiles at Hull.>
<The party receives 3 Elixirs of Health.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: <Hull salutes Winthrop.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: No promises, Winthrop.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Imoen is in the party.>
WINTHROP: And Imoen, this is fer you, sweetie!  <Winthrop winks at Imoen.>
<The party receives a Potion of Invisibility and a Potion of Perception.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Imoen is in the party.>
IMOEN: Thanks!  <Imoen winks back at Winthrop.>
What was your life like before you came to Candlekeep?
WINTHROP: I ventured far and wide across the area known as my family’s farm!  Then when practice time was over, I met some fellow bored, drunk people at the Friendly Arm Inn and were off on a mission to right wrongs and stop evil.  Then we fell asleep in the mud outside because we were tired.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
WINTHROP: <Winthrop sighs.>  I expected more of a laugh!  <He shrugs.>  Oh well.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
WINTHROP: But I was a scout for our group.  I was the guy with a ‘special set of skills’ if you know what I mean.  <He leans forward and winks.>  I made sure we divided the treasure fairly:  I got half and the other 5 people split their half.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Imoen is in the party.>
<Imoen winks back at Winthrop.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
WINTHROP: We failed to slay a dragon!  We ran from every undead we saw!  It wasn’t our lot in life to make the Red Wizards black ‘n’ blue all over!  We never found a kind of razor that Elminster wanted to use for himself!  But...
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
WINTHROP: We -were- good at hunting animals ‘n’ bandits.  And eating them.  But not the bandits.  I snuck around like a ghost ‘n’ set traps so well that even Mask, the God of Thieves, would be proud!  And then…
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
WINTHROP: My party left me!  They said I was never around for them!  They just couldn’t see me!  <Winthrop sighs.>  Oh well!  At least I could try my hand at my second love - money!  I mean business!  In one of the -easiest- but -least profitable- places in the world, Candlekeep!  Not even the bounty hunters ‘n’ law enforcement that were after me could get in!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
WINTHROP: I’m a good talker, a good baker, and an even -better- eater!  If you thought I’m a great catch now, you shoulda seen me -years- ago when I was half the man I am today!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
WINTHROP: If you want more of m’ story, you might be disappointed I wrote a whole -book- of it!  The only copy’s under permanent guard in the bowels of Candlekeep’s library!  Even -I- couldn’t find it before I got bored of looking, but I still found it!
Winthrop, why do you normally stock weapons and armor at your inn?
WINTHROP: Everyone else is too busy reading books and guarding the gate, and a blacksmith’s too expensive!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
WINTHROP: But every once in a while we get someone ‘round here who wants another sword or axe or bow.  The iron crisis has been good for -my- business, at least!  <Winthrop stands tall with his elbows outstretched from his sides, trying to strike a heroic pose.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If the party started the quest An Errand for Fuller but never finished it.>
WINTHROP: Remember Fuller the guard?  He waited -quite- awhile for ya to fetch him some bolts, kid.  When he heard ya left, he just gave up on waitin’ and came back here.  I gave ‘im what he asked odda pity, not that any fights broke out since ya left, kid.
<If the party completed the quest An Errand for Fuller.>
WINTHROP: Remember Fuller the guard?  Seems like every day someone else from the guard comes to me, wantin’ ta fetch some arrows or bolts or armor that doesn’t smell like beer ‘n’ farts.
What was Gorion like to you, Winthrop?
WINTHROP: He was a total lightweight, kid.  He could barely keep his drinks down!  Not very manly at all!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
WINTHROP: But he was an honest man.  Always paid fer his stuff quickly, even if sometimes his coins were covered in beard hair ‘n’ moldy spell components.
What did people tell you about Gorion’s life?
WINTHROP: Gorion was great!  He was powerful!  Elminster could beat him at everything!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
WINTHROP: But Gorion wasn’t much of a talker.  The humorless monks around here didn’t gossip much.  They could define ‘friend’ in every language of the land but I wondered if they ever -had- any!
BG1: CANDLEKEEP RETURN (INNER LIBRARY & CATACOMBS)
These mods allow parties to visit Candlekeep out of the expected sequence without breaking the game.
OlvynTweaks AKA METweaks is a mod that allows reentry into Candlekeep via the catacombs starting in the prolog.
Framed is a mod that makes visiting Candlekeep possible before the Iron Throne building.  Framed changes chapters 5 & 6.
Dialog with Koveras
<After Korveras finishes his line and gives <CHARNAME> the ring.>
HULL: <Hull whispers.>  I don’t trust this guy.  He knows too much to be innocent.
Dialog with Theoden
THEODEN: <Theoden salutes Hull.>  Welcome back, Hull.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull salutes Theoden as he notices Theoden’s attention turn toward <CHARNAME>.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
THEODEN: Well, dip me in broth and call me stewed.  If it isn’t little <CHARNAME>!  Why, I haven’t seen you for nearly... umm... quite some time, anyway.
Hello, Theoden.  How have you been?
THEODEN: I still remember you running around the keep in your little swaddling clothes, pestering the elders and spooking the cows.  Ain’t that right, Jessup?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
JESSUP: Surely was.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull snickers.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Sorry, kid.  That -was- pretty funny!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
THEODEN: Yep.  Of course, you never did stay in those rags of yours long.
[If Hull is in the party] Is -this- why the Candlekeep guard kept calling me ‘kiddo’ and ‘kid?’
<Append this dialog box to Theoden’s responses here.>
HULL: They remember you as a kid, or at least many years younger.  Don’t bother tryin’ to talk ‘em out of it, either!  They just enjoy it too much.
<Continue normally with Theoden’s dialog.>
HULL: Alright, kid.  If we somehow get separated, let’s meet at the Elfsong Tavern in Baldur’s Gate city.
Dialog with Watcher
<This watcher appears after killing the Iron Throne leaders in Candlekeep.>
<Append this dialog to the Watcher’s initial dialog if Hull is in the party.>
[If Hull is in the party] Hull the Candlekeep was there!  He can vouch for me that I am in the legal right!
HULL: Watcher man, the kid’s right, and we’re in the clear!
<Append this dialog after the Watcher’s final line before the party is taken captive.>
WATCHER: Hull, come with me.  We have some paperwork to file and business to handle.
HULL: <Hull groans.>  Alright, Watcher, sir.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull sighs.>  Kid, Elfsong.
<Hull is removed from the party.>  <END DIALOG.>
Dialog with Hull’s Doppelganger Under Candlekeep
HULL: Stole Hull’s special elixir, did you?  And fed it to the cows, no less?  You’ll rue the day you ever met me, <CHARNAME>!
BG1: CLOAKWOOD MINES
Cloakwood Mines Interior
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: Another mine?  Huh.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, it’s just -suspicious- that there’s a mine right next to a bandit base.
I agree, Hull.
HULL: I take it -someone- around here is -trying- to start a war!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: That also means I was right about Amn ‘n’ Baldur’s Gate going to war!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Damnit.
Explain, Hull.
<Show the same text as if the player chose the above agreement option.>
Suspicious?  It didn’t seem suspicious to me!
HULL: If you meant that as a joke, I’m not laughin’ at it!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<Show the same text as if the player chose the above agreement option.>
<Regardless of which dialog option the player chose.>
What should we do now?
HULL: We’re here, kid.  Let’s explore this place.  Act like we belong here and we’ll probably find less trouble that way.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And if we find trouble, I got your back if you got mine.
Gotcha, Hull.  Let’s go.
HULL: <Hull nods.>
Cloakwood Mines - Davaeorn Dead
<If Hull is in the party and the party is out of combat.>
HULL: Kid, it seems the leader of this crooked operation is dead.  Now what?
Let’s explore, Hull.
HULL: Alright.
Time to destroy this crooked mine!
HULL: <Hull looks at you suspiciously.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You sure, kid?  Nations wanna war over this ore!
All the more reason to do it!
HULL: <Hull looks at you, not sure if you’re serious.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, I -sure- hope you know what yer doin’!
What would you do, Hull?
HULL: Kid, I’d wanna take over this place if I could!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull pauses for a moment to consider what he just said.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But I -also- know that whoever runs this place now would put up a fight to keep it.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: We beat ‘em once, kid, but it’s your call.
Maybe we won’t destroy this mine so soon.
HULL: That seems like a better idea, kid, but it’s your call.
Gimme a moment to figure things out, Hull.
HULL: Alright, kid.  <END DIALOG.>
BG1: FRIENDLY ARM INN
Initial Visit to Friendly Arm Inn - Exterior
HULL: Well kid, this looks like the Friendly Arm Inn Gorion was talkin’ about.  Let’s check it out.
After Killing Tarnesh the Assassin
HULL: Kid, seems like -someone- wants -you- dead!  Now we know they’re after -you-... for whatever reason.
Initial Visit to Friendly Arm Inn - Interior
<This happens only if the party is out of combat.>
HULL: Kid, if you need me, I’ll be at the bar.
<Hull leaves the party and walks to the bar area.>
Hull, Khalid, and Jaheira Are in the Party Simultaneously
<Jaheira turns toward Hull.>
JAHEIRA: We know who Gorion is and who <CHARNAME> is, but who are you?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<Hull respectfully salutes.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Call me Hull.  I was a guard for Candlekeep and I volunteered to protect Gorion’s kid in his absence.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KHALID: How n-n-n-noble of you!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
JAHEIRA: Fine.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You two seem like the ‘Khalid’ and ‘Jaheira’ Gorion mentioned.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<Khalid nods.  Jaheira turns to <CHARNAME>.>>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
JAHEIRA: Yes, and I’m Jaheira and this is my husband Khalid.  Well, <CHARNAME>, it seems you came better prepared than I expected.  Let’s get going.
BG1: NASHKEL MINES
Nashkel Mines Exterior
<If the Amnnian Soldiers are blocking the front entrance to the Nashkel mines and the party talks to the guards.>
AMNIAN SOLDIER: You should really get permission from Emerson ‘fore you enter the mines.  He can get really nasty ‘bout unauthorized guys wandering ‘bout his mines.
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: Sir, we are here on official Candlekeep business to aid Emerson in his mine and fix this iron crisis.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AMNIAN SOLDIER: Candlekeep?  You guys just read books!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Sir, Candlekeep has many guards in metal armor and weapons who have suffered because of this iron crisis.  We are a research expedition from there, and believe we have answers to some of your mining problems.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AMNIAN SOLDIER 2: We -were- having some troubles on the lower levels.  We’ve lost a lot of good men down there.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AMNIAN SOLDIER 3: Y’know what?  Fine.  You wanna press your luck down there?  Go ahead.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thank you.
<The soldiers stand aside or leave so the party can enter.>
HULL: Ready when you are.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AMNIAN SOLDIER 3: If you die or get hurt, it’s your own fault!  Don’t blame us!
Hull, how long have you been waiting to do something like that?
HULL: I’ve been waitin’ -many- years to -finally- do somethin’ like that!
Why did you enjoy it so much?
HULL: I -finally- got to use my authority instead of just waitin’ ‘n’ complaining!
Let’s go!
<Hull nods.>  <END DIALOG.>
Nashkel Mines Interior
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: Time to learn more about this iron crisis!
BG1: NASHKEL TOWN
Volo (Belching Dragon Tavern) - Append This Dialog
<Add this dialog option to Volo’s.>
My friend Hull here would like to speak with you about your work.
HULL: Thanks, kid.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Volo, I read Volo’s Guide to the Sword Coast!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thanks, Volo, for making my long, boring shifts guarding Candlekeep a bit better by reading about the rest of the world!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: And thank you, Hull, for reading what I wrote!  It’s good to know my work is appreciated by the scholars in Candlekeep enough to keep that book in stock.
<Set a variable to remember that Hull talked with Volo about this.  It’ll matter in Saradush.>
[If the party has cleared the Nashkel Mines or visited the lowest floor of Durlag’s Tower] Hey, Volo!  Care to join and see the world together?
VOLO: <Volo pauses a moment, takes a deep breath, and enthusiastically speaks!>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: A hearty “Not yet,” my friend.  I’m in the middle of writing about some interesting geography I’ve found in my travels, and I’m hesitant to trust just -anyone- with my life!  
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: If you were to accomplish something of note, like handle the situation in the local Nashkel mines or descend to the deepest parts of Durlag’s Tower, I would be more inclined to go with you!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: There are many times in life when you simply need to prove yourself first, my friend!
I may not be accomplished in the ways you were mentioning, but would you join for 500 coins?
VOLO: <Volo shakes his head.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Under better circumstances I likely would, but we live in dangerous times, my friend!  There are plenty of people in this world with -plenty- of money but too little sense!  Your inexperience would likely get us -killed!-
[If the speaker has 18+ CHA and 500+ coins] All the more reason you should be my guide - for 500 coins!  Surely -this- demonstrates my sense by trusting you!
VOLO: <Volo ponders a moment.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: That is a remarkably -persuasive- argument!  Consider it a deal, my friend!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: And don’t mind me.  I’ll just change into my travel garb.  I don’t want to dirty my performer’s outfit.
<The screen fades to black and Volo’s sprite changes to a blue primary white secondary Male Human Bard sprite.  The party loses 500G.  Volo joins the group.>
[If the speaker has 16+ CHA] How about 750 coins?  Does that prove to you I have enough sense?
VOLO: Very well.  I can see you are persistent!
[If the party has the money] Take your money and let’s venture together, my friend!
VOLO: Ah, yes, my friend.  “In gold we trust.”
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Consider it a deal, my friend!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: And don’t mind me.  I’ll just change into my travel garb.  I don’t want to dirty my performer’s outfit.
<The screen fades to black and Volo’s sprite changes to a blue primary white secondary Male Human Bard sprite.  The party loses 500G.  Volo joins the group.>
[If the party lacks the money] Let me return once I have the money.
VOLO: Well, don’t be long.  I might have moved onto more interesting ventures by then!
How about 1,000 coins?  Do you feel secure enough with this amount?
VOLO: When you put it that way, yes, my friend!
[If the party has the money] Take your money and let’s venture together, my friend!
VOLO: Ah, yes, my friend.  “In gold we trust.”  That and, “Make an estimate and double it.  That’s the real amount.”
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Consider it a deal, my friend!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: And don’t mind me.  I’ll just change into my travel garb.  I don’t want to dirty my performer’s outfit.
<The screen fades to black and Volo’s sprite changes to a blue primary white secondary Male Human Bard sprite.  The party loses 500G.  Volo joins the group.>
[If the party lacks the money] Let me return once I have the money.
VOLO: Well, don’t be long.  I might have moved onto more interesting ventures by then!
What are you saying about Durlag’s Tower?  It’s a -tower!-  Of -course- it’s tall!
VOLO: Oh, yes, I agree, my friend.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: However, I have taken the tour from Ike in the town of Ulgoth’s Beard.  I’ve read the stories and cross-checked things in Candlekeep.  Dwarves made the place, and it is -sturdy- and -dangerous- by all measures!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Traps and horrid abominations abound and I would rather not go through that torment any time soon just to be able to write an accurate history of the place!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Whatever happened there to make the Dwarves lose their minds and leave, well, I’m not trusting an inexperienced expedition there!
Noted.  I may be back for you.
VOLO: And I am looking forward to the wonderful tales you bring!
[If the party has cleared the Nashkel Mines or visited the lowest floor of Durlag’s Tower] Hey, Volo!  Care to join and see the world together?
VOLO: <Volo pauses a moment, takes a deep breath, and enthusiastically speaks!>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Certainly!  I’ve grown bored of this town and I’m in need of new inspiration!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Before we head out, let me change my clothes.  I don’t want to dirty my favorite performer’s outfit!
<End dialog.  Fade to black.  Volo changes his clothes into a typical Male Human Bard outfit (blue major, white minor) and joins the party!>
SoD: AVERNUS & BELHIFET
Before the Final Boss (Belhifet) - Hull is in the Party
CAELAR: Damn you, Hephernaan!  It was your treachery that brought me to this!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: That guy reeked of evil from the start, girl!
CAELAR: After everything I’ve done, you would still have me at your side...?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You’re the best hell’s angel we have around here!  Sure!
HEPHERNAAN: You are as arrogant as my “mistress,” <CHARNAME>.  And you will share her fate!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: It’ll be a cold day in Hell before you get a chance to ruin our realms again!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HEPHERNAAN: Not bloody likely, Hollow Skull!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull smirks as he narrows his gaze at Hephernaan!>
After Beating Belhifet
HULL: Brr!  It’s cold in here!  We killed all the demons in the atmosphere!
Before Returning to Toril
CAELAR: Here, take this key.  It will open the Dragonspear vault.  I’ll not be returning to Toril.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Girl, I’m sorry you feel that way.  I liked you when you weren’t blinded by pride or being manipulated by some devil!
After Returning to Toril
HULL: Caelar or not, he we are!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull starts shivering.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Well, that means we’re clear of devils for now, kid!
SoD: BOARESKYR BRIDGE
Initial Visit
HULL: Kid, be careful around here.  Somethin’ tells me this place ain’t right.
Got any more specifics?
HULL: It’s just a hunch, kid, but a -strong- one.  Uncle Hull’s lookin’ out fer ya!
Noted, Hull.  Let’s go.
HULL: <Hull nods.>  <END DIALOG.>
<CHARNAME> Absorbs or Directs the Energy (Boareskyr Bridge Scene Mod or Not)
<After the energy is absorbed or directed and <CHARNAME> is again conscious.>
HULL: Kid, are you OK?  I wasn’t expecting that.
Hull, I’m alive.  That’s enough for me right now.
HULL: If so you say so.  <END DIALOG.>
I feel better than I look.  Trust me.
HULL: If so you say so.  <END DIALOG.>
I feel like death - and in a -bad- way.
HULL: Lemme know how Uncle Hull should help.  <END DIALOG.>
Your worst hangover never felt this bad!
HULL: I’m here for ya, kid!  <END DIALOG.>
I was more concerned for -you-, Hull!  You saw what happened!
HULL: Well, thanks, kid!  It’s good to know you still like your Uncle Hull!  <END DIALOG.>
SoD: COALITION CAMP
  Image Credit
If Hull hasn’t joined the party yet in SoD
<Hull moves to the Coalition Camp and is available to recruit.>
Hull, what’re you doing here?
HULL: Kid, you’re the Hero of Baldur’s Gate!  You made Candlekeep and Gorion proud!  Of -course- I came here to help you on your grand quest to fulfill your destiny!
What’s been happening back in Candlekeep?
HULL: Hardly anything’s changed since you left, kid.  Stones erode in a river faster than any big changes happen in Candlekeep.
What’s been happening back in Baldur’s Gate?
HULL: Well, kid, feelings have been mixed.  Seems like we stopped Sarevok’s war only to get dragged into another.
Anything else?
HULL: Keep the leaders pleased and maybe we’ll be made full royalty one day!
Really, now?
HULL: Well, that’s what I think.  I could sure do with a lordly title.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: “Hull, Lord of Swords.”  I like the sound of that.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Wait!  “Hull, Lord of the Sword Coast.”  That’s even better!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Just don’t call me, “Hull, Lord of Hangovers.”
What’d you bring me, Hull?
HULL: I bring you the present of my presence!  I’m ready to help!  Your faithful bodyguard and fellow citizen of Candlekeep!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: What were you expecting, a Bag of Holding?
<Pick one.>
Actually, yes, Hull!  <wink>
HULL: Maybe next time, kid.
No, not really, but I -was- expecting -some- sort of tribute.  Baldur’s Gate calls me a hero!  And there was much rejoicing!
HULL: Let’s join up ‘n’ I can buy ya a drink.  Or maybe a keg!
It’ll probably be dangerous and there might be a lot to explain, but you can join me if you want.
HULL: It’s a deal, kid!  <END DIALOG WITH HULL.>
[If Drizzt isn’t in the party like from Drizzt Saga] On second thought, let’s not team up now, Hull.
HULL: Well, kid, I don’t like it but I understand it.  Look for me around here.
[If Drizzt IS in the party like from Drizzt Saga] On second thought, let’s not team up now, Hull.
HULL: Wait!  It looks like Drizzt is with you!  PLEASE let me join you and make my dreams come true!
Alright, Hull.  Wish granted.
HULL: <Hull starts crying tears of joy.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thank you!  This means more to me than you may ever know!  <Continue with Hull’s dialog tree as if the party had let him join.>
Hull, not this time.  Maybe later.
HULL: Kid, I -swear- I’ll find some way to make this worthwhile to you!
It’s a deal, Hull.  I might call in a favor any time.
HULL: <Hull starts crying tears of joy.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thank you!  This means more to me than you may ever know!  <Continue with Hull’s dialog tree as if the party had let him join.>
What part of ‘No’ didn’t you understand?  ‘No’ means ‘No,’ not ‘Try again!’
HULL: <Hull just silently glares at you in disgust!>  <END DIALOG WITH HULL.>
Grovel for me, Hull.  -Maybe- I’ll let you join.
HULL: <Hull falls to the floor in the sleeping human Fighter animation.>  Please, PLEASE let me join you!
Alright, Hull.  Wish granted.  
HULL: <Hull starts crying tears of joy as he stands.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thank you!  This means more to me than you may ever know!  <Continue with Hull’s dialog tree as if the party had let him join.>
Not this time, Hull.  Remember, ‘No’ means ‘No,’ not ‘Try again!’
HULL: <Hull just silently glares at you in disgust!>  <END DIALOG WITH HULL.>
If Hull Stayed with Imoen in Ducal Palace (Imoen 4 Ever or not)
<Hull moves to the Coalition Camp and is available to recruit.>
Hull, what’re you doing here?  What happened to Imoen?
HULL: Imoen’s fine, kid.  She was worried for ya.  Besides, I was just in her way back at the palace, and she didn’t like my idea of ‘service.’
Start explaining.  Now.
HULL: I got her the sweets she ordered with a side of dead rats.  She shrieked when she found ‘em, kid!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull laughs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Then she threw ‘em back in my face ‘n’ slapped me for it!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But she -is- better, kid.  She’s been trainin’ in wizardry with Duke Jannath.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Besides, I was gettin’ deja vu of Candlekeep by starin’ at walls and walkin’ laps around the castle grounds.  I knew it was time to head out.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Besides, ‘her majesty’ Imoen dismissed me.  How regal of her!
Did she also playfully knight you?
HULL: Of course, kid!
What’s been happening back in Baldur’s Gate?
HULL: Well, kid, feelings have been mixed.  Seems like we stopped Sarevok’s war only to get dragged into another.
Anything else?
HULL: Keep the leaders pleased and maybe we’ll be made full royalty one day!
Really, now?
HULL: Well, that’s what I think.  I could sure do with a lordly title.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: “Hull, Lord of Swords.”  I like the sound of that.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Wait!  “Hull, Lord of the Sword Coast.”  That’s even better!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Just don’t call me, “Hull, Lord of Hangovers.”
What’d you bring me, Hull?
HULL: I bring you the present of my presence!  I’m ready to help!  Your faithful bodyguard and fellow citizen of Candlekeep!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: What were you expecting, a Bag of Holding?
<Pick one.>
Actually, yes, Hull!  <wink>
HULL: Maybe next time, kid.
No, not really, but I -was- expecting -some- sort of tribute.  Baldur’s Gate calls me a hero!  And there was much rejoicing!
HULL: Let’s join up ‘n’ I can buy ya a drink.  Or maybe a keg!
It’ll probably be dangerous and there might be a lot to explain, but you can join me if you want.
HULL: It’s a deal, kid!  <END DIALOG WITH HULL.>
[If Drizzt isn’t in the party like from Drizzt Saga] On second thought, let’s not team up now, Hull.
HULL: Well, kid, I don’t like it but I understand it.  Look for me around here.
[If Drizzt IS in the party like from Drizzt Saga] On second thought, let’s not team up now, Hull.
HULL: Wait!  It looks like Drizzt is with you!  PLEASE let me join you and make my dreams come true!
Alright, Hull.  Wish granted.
HULL: <Hull starts crying tears of joy.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thank you!  This means more to me than you may ever know!  <Continue with Hull’s dialog tree as if the party had let him join.>
Hull, not this time.  Maybe later.
HULL: Kid, I -swear- I’ll find some way to make this worthwhile to you!
It’s a deal, Hull.  I might call in a favor any time.
HULL: <Hull starts crying tears of joy.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thank you!  This means more to me than you may ever know!  <Continue with Hull’s dialog tree as if the party had let him join.>
What part of ‘No’ didn’t you understand?  ‘No’ means ‘No,’ not ‘Try again!’
HULL: <Hull just silently glares at you in disgust!>  <END DIALOG WITH HULL.>
Grovel for me, Hull.  -Maybe- I’ll let you join.
HULL: <Hull falls to the floor in the sleeping human Fighter animation.>  Please, PLEASE let me join you!
Alright, Hull.  Wish granted.  
HULL: <Hull starts crying tears of joy as he stands.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thank you!  This means more to me than you may ever know!  <Continue with Hull’s dialog tree as if the party had let him join.>
Not this time, Hull.  Remember, ‘No’ means ‘No,’ not ‘Try again!’
HULL: <Hull just silently glares at you in disgust!>  <END DIALOG WITH HULL.>
[Imoen 4 Ever Option Enabled: I4E in SoD: Imoen Returns to PC in First Coalition Camp (bd1000)] If Hull Stayed with Imoen in Ducal Palace
<Hull moves to the Coalition Camp and is available to recruit.>
[If Imoen is in the party] Hull, what’re you doing here?
HULL: Imoen!  I’m glad you’re back!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: You too, my knight!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Anyway, kid, when I heard the Flaming Fist was moving out and makin’ camp, I joined ‘em!  I’m glad you’re here so we can team up again!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: Yeah!  Then you can fetch me my royal, fuzzy slippers!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Let it go, girl!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: <Imoen smiles.>
[If Imoen isn’t in the party] Hull, what’re you doing here?  What happened to Imoen?
HULL: Imoen’s fine, kid.  She joined the camp.  I thought she met with you already.
Start explaining.  Now.
HULL: Imoen recovered faster than some believed possible, and just in time, too!  I take full credit!  <Hull laughs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But really, kid, she missed you and the adventuring life.  No sense in being a stationary target.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Besides, I was gettin’ deja vu of Candlekeep by starin’ at walls and walkin’ laps around the castle grounds.  I knew it was time to head out.
What’s been happening back in Baldur’s Gate?
HULL: Well, kid, feelings have been mixed.  Seems like we stopped Sarevok’s war only to get dragged into another.
Anything else?
HULL: Keep the leaders pleased and maybe we’ll be made full royalty one day!
Really, now?
HULL: Well, that’s what I think.  I could sure do with a lordly title.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: “Hull, Lord of Swords.”  I like the sound of that.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Wait!  “Hull, Lord of the Sword Coast.”  That’s even better!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Just don’t call me, “Hull, Lord of Hangovers.”
What’d you bring me, Hull?
HULL: I bring you the present of my presence!  I’m ready to help!  Your faithful bodyguard and fellow citizen of Candlekeep!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: What were you expecting, a Bag of Holding?
<Pick one.>
Actually, yes, Hull!  <wink>
HULL: Maybe next time, kid.
No, not really, but I -was- expecting -some- sort of tribute.  Baldur’s Gate calls me a hero!  And there was much rejoicing!
HULL: Let’s join up ‘n’ I can buy ya a drink.  Or maybe a keg!
It’ll probably be dangerous and there might be a lot to explain, but you can join me if you want.
HULL: It’s a deal, kid!  <END DIALOG WITH HULL.>
[If Drizzt isn’t in the party like from Drizzt Saga] On second thought, let’s not team up now, Hull.
HULL: Well, kid, I don’t like it but I understand it.  Look for me around here.
[If Drizzt IS in the party like from Drizzt Saga] On second thought, let’s not team up now, Hull.
HULL: Wait!  It looks like Drizzt is with you!  PLEASE let me join you and make my dreams come true!
Alright, Hull.  Wish granted.
HULL: <Hull starts crying tears of joy.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thank you!  This means more to me than you may ever know!  <Continue with Hull’s dialog tree as if the party had let him join.>
Hull, not this time.  Maybe later.
HULL: Kid, I -swear- I’ll find some way to make this worthwhile to you!
It’s a deal, Hull.  I might call in a favor any time.
HULL: <Hull starts crying tears of joy.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thank you!  This means more to me than you may ever know!  <Continue with Hull’s dialog tree as if the party had let him join.>
What part of ‘No’ didn’t you understand?  ‘No’ means ‘No,’ not ‘Try again!’
HULL: <Hull just silently glares at you in disgust!>  <END DIALOG WITH HULL.>
Grovel for me, Hull.  -Maybe- I’ll let you join.
HULL: <Hull falls to the floor in the sleeping human Fighter animation.>  Please, PLEASE let me join you!
Alright, Hull.  Wish granted.  
HULL: <Hull starts crying tears of joy as he stands.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thank you!  This means more to me than you may ever know!  <Continue with Hull’s dialog tree as if the party had let him join.>
Not this time, Hull.  Remember, ‘No’ means ‘No,’ not ‘Try again!’
HULL: <Hull just silently glares at you in disgust!>  <END DIALOG WITH HULL.>
SoD: THE CHICKEN, WELL, AND DOG EASTER EGG (DUSTY CHICKEN)
Explanation 1
Party Gets a Dusty Chicken (Item Code BDCHICKN)
HULL: Kid, why are we picking up a dirty chicken?  I thought we were gonna leave the farm animals back in Candlekeep where they belonged!
I like chickens.
HULL: I like ‘em too - if they’re properly cooked!
Gimme a moment, Hull.  Let’s clean this chicken.
HULL: If this thing makes me sneeze, I’m droppin’ it, kid!
Of all the miscellaneous stuff we’ve picked up in our travels, -this- makes you want to comment?
HULL: Kid, I can handle dirty tombs, dragon caves, and hordes of undead if it means a good payday.  -This- is a chicken.
I just wanted to witness your reaction, Hull.
HULL: <Hull smiles and snickers.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Good.  Now put that dirty thing where it belongs.  Don’t make me carry it, kid!
Let’s just drop the matter.  We’ll handle the chicken later.
HULL: <Hull sighs and shakes his head.> <END DIALOG.>
Party Drops Weapon Down the Old Well
HULL: Well, kid, I hope we weren’t gonna use that.  I’m not going down there to get it.  There could be sharks!
Sharks?  Here?  Surely you jest!
HULL: Yeah, but my point still stands.
We’ll be fine, Hull.
HULL: I s’pose if you can kill Sarevok, losing something to a well won’t matter.
Uh oh!  My hand slipped!
HULL: <Hull sighs and rolls his eyes.>
Let’s just go, Hull.
HULL: <Hull smirks.> <END DIALOG.>
Party Drops Dirty Chicken Down the Old Well
HULL: Swim, chicky, swim!
Alright, Hull.  There’s the bath you wanted it to have.  Happy now?
HULL: <Hull sneezes.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Yeah!
Will you miss that chicken?
HULL: Not at all, kid.
Bye, chicken!  I was gonna take you home and teach you tricks, but you needed this more!
HULL: <Hull reluctantly laughs!>
Onward, Hull!
HULL: <Hull just smiles and laughs at the situation.>  <END DIALOG.>
Dog Appears Because of Old Well Interactions
HULL: We just dropped a dirty chicken in a well, maybe did some other stuff, and a dog appears?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: This has -gotta- be someone’s idea of a joke!
Agreed, Hull.
HULL: <Hull smiles and blinks.>
But it could all just be coincidence!
HULL: <Hull shrugs.>
What do you think the joke was?
HULL: Probably something sexual.  Most jokes are.
<Pick one.>
Agreed, Hull.  I’ve heard enough.
HULL: <Hull smiles and winks.>
Tell me what -you- think all of this meant.
HULL: Stick a dirty cock down a deep, dark, stinky hole and another beast joins in.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: In other words, butt sex.  Probably man to man butt sex.
Alright, my joking Uncle Hull, why aren’t -you- laughing?
HULL: I don’t get it, kid, or I don’t -wanna- get it.  Same either way to me.
Will you laugh anyway?  I’d feel better if you did.
HULL: <Hull laughs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Your turn, kid.
<Pick one.>
I’m just not feelin’ it.
HULL: C’mon, kid!  I did it for you!
Because you said so.  Ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha!
HULL: Good, kid!
Gladly!  Ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha!
HULL: I feel better already!
Not laughing at this joke -is- the joke, Hull!
HULL: <Hull rolls his eyes as he weakly laughs.>
Ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha!
HULL: -That’s- better!
Whatever the punchline, we have a deadline.  Let’s go, Hull!
HULL: <Hull shrugs and nods.>
SoD: DUCAL PALACE
Attack on the Palace
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: Damnit, kid!  They’re STILL after us!?  I thought they woulda stopped after Sarevok died!
Why do you think we were attacked?
HULL: I hate to say it, kid, but war?  War never changes.
Stop stalling and let’s move on!
HULL: Deal.  <END DIALOG>
After the Attack on the Palace: Imoen Stays Behind - Talking with Imoen
<If Hull isn’t in the party but is in the area when the party leaves to follow the crusader, he’ll stay around the palace but join the party at the Coalition Camp.>
<If Hull is in the party and for some reason the party doesn’t talk to Imoen in this phase of the game, Hull simply stays with the party.  This is the default option anyway.>
<If Hull is in the party and the party talks to Imoen.>
HULL: <Hull sighs.>  Well, Imoen’s odda commission for now.  We shoulda learned by now, kid, that nowhere’s safe.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: So, should I stay behind with Imoen or venture forth with you, kid?
Come with me, Hull.  Finding and fixing this problem will help us all more!
HULL: Alright, kid.  Imoen, whadda ya say?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: <CHARNAME>, they probably want you dead more.  I should be fine here.
HULL: Alright.
Hull, I can handle myself well enough.  You stay with Imoen and guard her.  Gorion’s legacy will live on somehow!
HULL: Alright, kid.  Imoen, whadda ya say?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: <CHARNAME>, well, if that’s what you want, I’ll take another friendly face and butler around here!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Girl, I’ll guard ya.  I didn’t agree to any butler duties.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: Guard, butler...  they mean the same thing.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: That’s not what I said.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: Hull, go fetch me sweets and the finest jewelry!  I’m your queen, this is my palace, and you’re my knight!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Go magic ‘em up yerself, m’lady!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<Imoen snickers.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull laughs.>
Hull, what would you prefer?
HULL: Kid, I’d rather join you on this mission.  I don’t think Gorion planned for this.  Imoen, whadda ya say?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: Hull, <CHARNAME>, you two go ahead.  I’ll be fine here.  Even if I want ya here as my butler, Hull.
HULL: Gotchya.
Imoen, what would you prefer?
IMOEN: <CHARNAME>, they probably want you dead more.  I should be fine here, Hull or no Hull.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Alright.
After the Attack on the Palace: Hull Stays Behind - Talking with Hull
<If the party assigned Hull to guard Imoen for the moment, talking to him produces this dialog tree.>
HULL: Alright, kid.  What’s happening?
Just checking on you two.
HULL: We’re fine for now, kid.  Thanks for asking.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: Butler!  Bring me oil for my massage!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Go find a mage to cast grease on ya!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<Imoen laughs.>
Hull, I may have spoken too soon.  I want you to guard me again.
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Alright, kid.  Are you sure?  Because if I go with you, I’m not staying with Imoen.  That’s my final answer.  As the Candlekeep guard chief said, “I don’t like wishy-washy.”
Nevermind, Hull.  Stay with Imoen.
HULL: <Hull nods.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: Butler, fetch me my chess set!  It’s time to beat you again!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Do you even know how to play chess?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: Yeah!  The queen always wins!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
You’re coming with me, now, Hull.  That’s my final answer!
HULL: Alright, kid.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: Night night, my knight!  Sleep tight!  Kill the assassins, alright?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull playfully bows toward Imoen.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: That I can do, m’lady!  <Hull joins the party.>
Goodbye, then.  Do stay safe!
HULL: We’ll do what we can, kid.  <END DIALOG.>
SoD: FINALE
[If Imoen 4 Ever Component Isn’t Installed: I4E in SoD: Imoen Returns to PC in First Coalition Camp (bd1000)] Meeting Imoen
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: Imoen!  Welcome back!  
<Continue with Imoen’s dialog.>
-=PARTY AREA COMMENTS=-
BG1: VISITING LOCATIONS FOR THE FIRST TIME
Baldur’s Gate City (Any Outside Map)
DRIZZT: Behold, the famous city of Baldur’s Gate and perhaps the most famous city in all the surface of the realms!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: While I know little of this place, I do know troubles and opportunities must abound!  Let us explore this place, <CHARNAME>!
VOLO: Ah!  The City of Baldur’s Gate!  I have heard this place was so charming many never wanted to leave!
Volo, what can you tell me of Baldur’s Gate?
VOLO: More than you want to hear, my friend!  Volo’s Guide to the Sword Coast - as written by yours truly - covers the most interesting locales!
Why do you claim you know more than I want to hear?
VOLO: Ah, my friend!  We are not here to sample the drinks and beds of every inn in town!  We have more pressing matters!
What taverns and inns do you recommend?
VOLO: The Low Lantern is a boat tavern by the docks and offers the most unique experience in or near the city. 
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: The Elfsong Tavern in East Baldur’s Gate is pretty famous and perhaps the most famous tavern in the city!  A ghostly female elven voice is heard every 3 nights or so; hence, its name.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: I know not her origins, but her voice has been pleasant - assuming it isn’t a ruse by some illusionist!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Beyond this, the establishments are similar in quality and variety.
What shops do you recommend?
VOLO: Sorcerous Sundries in East Baldur’s Gate is -quite- the magic item emporium!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: There are plenty of shops around here that sell weapons and armor of lower grades.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: And be careful about the Black Market.  It’s also in East Baldur’s Gate from what I’ve heard.
The Black Market?  That sounds like a story!
VOLO: Being the famous author that I am, certain dubious individuals were keen to recognize me and try to sell me something of equal dubiosity!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: I had -none- of it, I assure you - but I learned that day to loathe the aftertaste of Haste potions!
We’ll need to leave it eventually, Volo.
VOLO: Logically, yes, my friend!  However, let us handle our business here while being wary of thieves and other troublemakers.
HULL: Well, here we are.  I heard the guards were -paranoid- about keeping people in here like they were under siege!  Let’s head for the nearest tavern to celebrate!  Or the nearest magic item shop!
Magic item shops?  Let’s go there!
HULL: Kid, you know me -so well!-  <END DIALOG.>
Hull, I’d rather just look around the city first.
HULL: Alright, kid, but remember what I said.  <END DIALOG.>
Let’s head to a tavern.  I’m buying!
HULL: Cheers, kid!  <END DIALOG.>
Baldur’s Gate City (Thief’s Guild Interior)
HULL: <Hull leans in and whispers to you.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, this place has ‘den of thieves’ written all over it!  It’s a -strong- hunch!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: This looks remarkably similar to the Black Market I wandered into on a previous visit.  Just be careful.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: Beware the shift-eyed ones all around, <CHARNAME>.
<END DIALOG.>
Baldur’s Gate City (Undercity)
VOLO: My friend, Sarevok is near, and so is our fight with him!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: If there are any last-minute preparations to make, let us make them quickly!
What can you tell me about this area, Volo?
VOLO: Regrettably, not much!  I’ve only heard rumors of some ancient temple of Bhaal under Baldur’s Gate!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: But if -I- were Sarevok, I would likely fill the area with traps, undead, and constructs and keep my most loyal followers close to me to help ensure my victory!
That’s all for now, Volo.  Let’s go!
VOLO: Know this, my friend:  I am with you on this endeavor!  I simply -know- we can win!
Aren’t you concerned about how prepared Sarevok is?
VOLO: Not at all, my friend!  We only need to be able to overcome whatever it is we find!
Alright, Volo.  It’s time to go and face this mad man Sarevok!
VOLO: It is, my friend!  It is!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: I eagerly await being able to write a happy ending for us in my account of our journey!  <END DIALOG WITH VOLO.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: So, it has come to this!  Sarevok has shown himself a traitor to the citizens of Baldur’s Gate and made himself an enemy of Drizzt Do’Urden, <CHARNAME>, and all who seek goodness in this world!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: But only fools rush in, my friend!  Let us be prepared for the trials ahead and what will be our finest hour!
HULL: Kid, this looks like the end of the ride.  Sarevok’s on the run and the fight with him is finally on its way.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Whatever yer destiny is, kid, ‘n’ whatever Gorion planned for you, I think they’re close to done.  Good work so far, kid.  I’m glad we helped each other.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-
HULL: Just in case one of us goes out like Gorion, I just want ya to know, kid, that I’ve been the best stand-in for Gorion that I could.
Trying to -be- Gorion won’t bring him back, Hull.
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Yeah, I know, kid.  He saw the best in ya, kid, and... I wanna be like that.
You mean you want to be an old, bearded man who dies in an ambush?
HULL: <Hull chuckles.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Not at all, kid.
You mean you want to be the best foster father I ever had?
HULL: Yeah.  That!
Thanks, Hull.  I know.
HULL: <Hull sighs and hugs you.>
<Pick One.>
Hull, please don’t surprise me with hugs again.  I’m not the hugging type.
HULL: Sorry, kid.  I needed it ‘n’ thought you did too.
I needed that.
HULL: Me too.
Hull, don’t you worry!  Remember, resurrection exists!
HULL: Kid, and right now, I’m -totally- willing to come back ‘n’ help ya!  Just... keep it as a... backup option.
Hull, we’re gonna win this!
HULL: <Hull sighs.>  Sarevok’s a master strategist and a magnificent, genocidal -bastard!-  He’s probably got traps galore ‘n’ an army in store!
Thanks for the warning.
Sure, kid.
How’re you feeling, Hull?
<Hull sighs.>  Like that, kid.
What’s -that- mean, Hull?
You’ll figure it out.
Hull, any last comments on Sarevok?
Kid, he strikes me as having a motto of, “Death for the death god!  Souls for the soul throne!”
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
Killing HIM would be an act of mercy I would GLADLY give him!
Not unless -I- kill him first!
So long as he DIES and STAYS DEAD, I’m fine with it, kid!
Destiny awaits!  Onward!
HULL: Do I know her?
HULL: You’ll figure it out.  <END DIALOG.>
I’m not in a mood for jokes, Hull.
HULL: At least you figured it out!  <END DIALOG.>
Yes, Hull.  She’s the same cruel mistress that killed Gorion and started this -damn- mess!
HULL: Time to arrest her for murder, arson, ‘n’ public intoxication!  <END DIALOG.>
Yes, Hull.  She’s the same gal who made us tired of living in Candlekeep and want to leave!
HULL: Well, that’s a more inspiring answer than I expected from a joke!  <END DIALOG.>
Yes, Hull.  I heard she’s your favorite prostitute!
HULL: I set myself up for that one.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull smiles.>  <END DIALOG.>
Yes, Hull.  She’s the same -bitch- who’s gonna pay for letting Sarevok live long enough for me to turn him into dog shit!
HULL: I set myself up for that one.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull smiles.>  <END DIALOG.>
Candlekeep Exterior
VOLO NOTE: Volo will keep asking for input until the player selects all dialog options from this list or tells Volo there’s nothing more.
VOLO: As the saying goes, “There’s no place like home.”
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: What do you say to returning to this place?
This is not a place I want to see again any more than necessary.  Too many memories.
VOLO: I understand.
Do you?  Do you know what it’s like to be raised here, wanted dead, and hunted by assassins in your very home -just- because someone wanted you dead?
VOLO: When you put it that way, my friend, no.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: But I have been chased throughout the realms because someone in power disagreed with what I wrote!
VOLO: I suppose I was right.  There -is- no place like home!
Part of me wants to live here the rest of my days and never leave.
VOLO: Ah, the beautiful familiarity of Candlekeep!
Candlekeep was good for awhile, but I’ve moved on.
VOLO: <Volo nods.>
I was kicked out, exiled for not being best friends with the guy in charge!
VOLO: My condolences, my friend!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Anything else?
Nothing else for now, Volo.
VOLO: Very well, then.
What can you tell me of Candlekeep, Volo?
VOLO: Testing me, I see!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: I -strongly- suspect you know -far- more than me, having lived here for many years! I was but a guest!
DRIZZT: So -this- is your home, <CHARNAME>.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: Your facial expression looks uncomfortable.
Like you, Drizzt, I was kicked out of my home due to certain circumstances and told I wasn’t welcome there anymore.
DRIZZT: <Drizzt sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: I understand all too well the pains that come from rejection of those I once called friends and family.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: The very place you call ‘home’ can change - and it has.
How did you handle this rejection?
DRIZZT: it was a matter of life and death, <CHARNAME>.  Either I left or I would be trapped in an endless cycle of violence - and perhaps sacrificed to Lolth!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: Your exile from your home also put your life in danger, but, assassins aside, at least those in Candlekeep were not out for your corpse!
Drizzt, how much do you want to go home?
DRIZZT: <Drizzt sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: For me, the surface has become my home.  I am a traveler who fights for my beliefs of uplifting the downtrodden and being a force for good in this world.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: Returning to the Underdark may remind me of some memories I wish I never had.
[If the party hasn’t exhausted Drizzt’s dialog] That’s enough, Drizzt.  Let’s go.
DRIZZT: Please, <CHARNAME>, my friend, let us talk about home since we are here.  It matters much to each of us.
[If the party has exhausted Drizzt’s dialog] That’s enough, Drizzt.  Let’s go.
DRIZZT: <Drizzt nods.>
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Well, kid, home hasn’t moved, but it’s changed.
What do you mean, Hull?
HULL: Candlekeep still looks pretty much like the same castle we know it to be, but…
But -what-, Hull?
HULL: Assassins chased you out, kid, then I chased after -you.-  Even if we could live there in peace again, I don’t think that’s what Gorion woulda wanted.
HULL: Kid, Gorion saw somethin’ special in ya, and... he wanted ya to live an experienced life like he did.
I agree.
HULL: Good, kid.  You were worth dying for.  <END DIALOG.>
I disagree, Hull.
HULL: Maybe you’ll change yer mind.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You were worth dying for, kid.  Remember this.  <END DIALOG.>
Hull, please end your sentence there.  I’d rather not think about it.
HULL: Alright, kid, but remember Gorion thought you were worth dyin’ for.  <END DIALOG.>
Candlekeep Library Interior
DRIZZT: The illustrious Candlekeep Library!  I had heard rumors of this place.  It is an exclusive sanctuary for knowledge and scholars!  I consider myself to be fortunate enough to gaze upon it!
Drizzt, I understand your position as an outsider to this place.
DRIZZT: <Drizzt nods.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
It’s different growing up here.  To me, this place is common.
DRIZZT: That is... a striking comparison.  It is like being an outsider to the Underdark compared to growing up there.
Onward, Drizzt!
DRIZZT: <Drizzt nods.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: Allow me a moment to enjoy the splendor of this place!
VOLO: This place looks even more magnificent on the inside!  It is like a temple to knowledge!
Are you in your element here, Volo?
VOLO: A bit, my friend!  I have enjoyed my share of acting and adventuring, but of course I have devoted my life to reading and writing as well!
So, where are -your- books in this library?
VOLO: That is a good question, my friend!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: On a previous visit, there was debate with certain scholars as to whether my works were worthy of literary preservation here.  No amount of leaving copies of my works around here seemed to convince them to keep them in a proper archive!
How do you feel about that, Volo?
VOLO: Flustered, my friend!  I thought -surely- with Elminster as my editor, Candlekeep would consider my works!
Wait!  You’ve worked with Elminster?
VOLO: Why, yes, my friend, and ever since my first book!  I thought you knew!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: But I understand that I haven’t built the strong reputation with Candlekeep that Elminster has.
We’re here to do more than stare.  Let’s go, Volo!
VOLO: Very well.
HULL: Well, well, welcome home!  How’s this homecoming feel, kid?
Better because I’m with you, Hull.
HULL: <Hull smiles and sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thanks, kid.  It’s good to know we’re friends after all we’ve been through!
I miss my reading time already.
HULL: Reading time ‘round here can wait, kid.  Let’s handle business first.  
I wish Gorion were here.
HULL: <Hull sighs.>  Yeah, kid, I know.  I can’t fully replace him, but I’m tryin’.
Why try so hard to be someone else?
HULL: Kid, I probably said this before, but here we go again.  I want the best for ya kid as much as I can.  Gorion’s dead ‘n’ stayin’ that way, kid, as far as I can tell, but maybe -I- can be the father figure ya never had, or that ya wish ya had back!
Is there a deeper reason you cared so much about me, Hull?
HULL: Likely so, kid.  Gimme some time to think about how to tell ya.
I just remembered that I -didn’t- miss the politics of this place!
HULL: <Hull sighs.>  People means politics.  Never forget that, kid!
Time to go, Hull!
HULL: Let’s!  <End Dialog>
Candlekeep Catacombs
DRIZZT: We were saved from disgrace in Candlekeep only to be put here!  <CHARNAME>, what do you know of this region?
Not much, Drizzt.  This part of Candlekeep was hidden away.
DRIZZT: it is unfortunate that this ‘hidden’ part of Candlekeep as you called it was likely hidden for good reason!  The air in this room smells cooler and damper than where we were.
What do you suspect?
DRIZZT: We were likely taken to a cellar or a catacomb near Candlekeep.  No doubt, this place is guarded by something dangerous!
Drizzt, let’s investigate this hidden region.
DRIZZT: I agree, <CHARNAME>, but let us not be hasty!
VOLO: The wretched underbelly and stink pit of Candlekeep!  This is -not- a welcoming place!
How do you know?
VOLO: There is no such thing as a welcoming place called a ‘catacomb!’
We aren’t gonna live here the rest of our days.  Let’s go!
VOLO: Yes!  Let’s!
HULL: So -this- is the stinky, tomb of Alaundo the Seer.  I thought he’d get a better burial site.
What do you know about Alaundo?
HULL: Not much, kid.  He made a buncha vague predictions.  Some came true.
Is Alaundo the guy those chanters were chanting about?
HULL: Yeah, kid.
That’s all for now, Hull.
HULL: Agreed.  Let’s finish here ‘n’ get somewhere -cleaner.-  <END DIALOG.>
Cloakwood Mines Interior
DRIZZT: Surely, more horrors dwell within these veins of the earth!
VOLO: A hidden mine in Cloakwood?  What a surprise!
HULL: Maybe this remote mine will get us the answers we want!
Durlag’s Tower Exterior
DRIZZT: I know little of this place, but in ruins like these, there is -always- more than what’s detectable on the surface!  Be on your guard!
Drizzt, let’s go.
DRIZZT: <Drizzt nods.>
VOLO: Durlag’s Tower, home to a clan of dwarves that lost their minds!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Unlike a typical dwarf, he built a structure going -up,- but as every architect worth his drafting board knows, he also would have needed a solid underground foundation!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Traps, treasure, and secret doors undoubtedly await us in this tower!  Undead, elementals, and constructs are also likely to have survived after all this time!
What else can you share?
VOLO: I have heard rumors of demonic activity here, my friend!  Be on your guard!
That’s enough talk for now.  Let’s go, Volo!
VOLO: Certainly!
HULL: Kid, this looks like Durlag’s Tower.  I’ve read about this place.  There were some crazy dwarves who built it or lived here.  Some horrid tragedy killed ‘em all and this tower’s gone dangerous, kid.
Danger means treasure!
HULL: Kid, it’s only treasure if we -survive-, but I get yer point.  <END DIALOG.>
Danger?  Maybe later.
HULL: Alright, kid.  We should have this place marked on our map for later.  <END DIALOG.>
What sort of danger?
HULL: I dunno, kid.  Probably traps, poison, disease, undead, magic, and fire.  That’s how I’d build my death trap dwarf fortress.
What would you prefer?
HULL: I want us all to live!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But I -am- curious about this place.  Is it as dangerous as the tales say?  I’d rather find out - when we’re ready.  <END DIALOG.>
Nashkel Carnival
DRIZZT: Some sort of brightly-colored open air gathering?  Is this how topsiders spend their time?
Drizzt, it’s called a carnival, and it’s intended to be a fun celebration!
DRIZZT: I understand that idea, <CHARNAME>.  It is a different feeling to experience it instead of merely hearing about it.
Did you have celebrations like this in your homeland?
DRIZZT: <Drizzt shakes his head.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: There were events that may be called celebrations by topsiders, but there was no such free-spiritedness.  -Everyone- was judging you.  -Always.-  It was the drow way - or at least the way that Lolth worshippers expected people to behave.
Drizzt, let’s go.
DRIZZT: <Drizzt nods.>
VOLO: Behold, a festival!  Surely we can find -something- interesting here for us to do.
Volo, how do we justify our time here?
VOLO: My friend, relaxation and research into curiosities shall aid our spirits!  Morale is of the utmost importance!
Whatever we’re doing around here, let’s get to it.
VOLO: Agreed!
HULL: Kid, I know assassins were after you recently, but how about we have some fun and feel better?
Hull, I’m not in a mood to be cheered up.
Kid, I think you are.  <END DIALOG.>
Thanks, Hull.  Let’s see what they have around here!
Alright, kid!  That’s the spirit!  <END DIALOG.>
Nashkel Mines Interior
HULL: Alright, kid.  Maybe we can get some good ore from here, or at least learn why the good ore went bad!
Ulgoth’s Beard
HULL: Kid, welcome to Ulgoth’s Beard.  Let’s finish before this place grows on me or I lose any hair.
Ow, Hull.  Just, ow!
<Hull chuckles.>  <END DIALOG.>
Good one, Hull.
Alright.  Thanks, kid.  <END DIALOG.>
SoD: VISITING LOCATIONS FOR THE FIRST TIME
HULL: When I told people to ‘Go to Hell,’ did they end up here?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: More importantly, is Sarevok here?
Hull, if we find anyone we recognize - including Sarevok - I think we’ll know.
HULL: It’s a deal, kid!  <END DIALOG.>
Avernus - Elevator
HULL: Whoa!  This thing is moving?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Time to ride this hellevator all the way!
Hull, if we find anyone we recognize - including Sarevok - I think we’ll know.
HULL: It’s a deal, kid!  <END DIALOG.>
Coalition Camp
HULL: So, where’s the beer tent?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
Does this place have a beer tent?
HULL: I thought -you- knew!
Let’s just go.
HULL: Don’t make me wander off and find it alone, kid!
Dragonspear Castle
HULL: So -this- is the enemy base?  I expected something... pointier.  And more draconic-themed.  <END DIALOG.>
Korsasz’s Tomb
HULL: We ain’t odda here yet, kid.  Beware any more of Sarevok’s traps!  <END DIALOG.>
BG2/SoA: VISITING LOCATIONS FOR THE FIRST TIME 
Most Noble Order of the Radiant Heart Building - Interior
<If Volo is in the party.>
VOLO: Well, my friend, this most welcoming place is certainly -splendid!-  I can feel its warm, welcoming aura already!
VOLO: Can you not see the -magnificence- of the -architecture- here, the rare materials used in this construction, and how everything seems to try to be heavenly and of the highest quality?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Nalia is also in the party.>
NALIA: Volo, please stop.  I know you mean well, but this, this... opulence could have been used better to feed those in need!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Perhaps, my lady.  Perhaps.  But remember:  This is a -noble- organization!  It is easier to fight evil with wealth than poverty!
I understand, Volo.  Let’s go!
VOLO: Certainly!  <END DIALOG WITH VOLO.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Peer at all the prissy Paladins pondering their piety.  It’s practically petrifying!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Keldorn is in the party.>
KELDORN: And you, -drow-, had better remember your -place.-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Yes, yes.  “Light makes right,” and all that.  Makes me wonder what happens if their beliefs were challenged.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KELDORN: Swords and spells would make their point to strike you down and prevent your resurrection, -drow-.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Anyway, our association with these armed and armored folk should abrogate to our avail, lest we offend them by our presence.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: Kid, I came here when I was lookin’ for ya after arriving in Athkatla.  They didn’t know where you were, but they were very polite.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And, kid, I got a favor to ask.  I wanna join them as a knight, and I need your help.
Does that mean you become a paladin?
HULL: I dunno, kid.  I wasn’t raised as a paladin like some guys here were.  But I am your big, strong, loyal bodyguard!
What’s involved in knighthood?
HULL: Let’s go ask the guy in charge here.  I think his name is Prelate Wessalen.
Let’s go.
HULL: I’m excited!  <END DIALOG.>
<This adds the quest to the journal, “Hull’s Knighthood.”>
Spellhold Asylum - Exterior
BAELOTH: An arcane asylum awaits?  Expect no easy egress from there after entry!
Feeling nervous, Baeloth?
BAELOTH: I smell the spell components from here.  It’s like home in the worst of ways!
What do you mean, Baeloth?
BAELOTH: Trial, tribulation, and torment from some talented taskmaster that is -not- yours truly!  Only agony awaits us within!
But my companion Imoen is in there!
BAELOTH: Yes, yes.  Your childhood cohort was captured as a contrivance to ensnare you.
Time to go, Baeloth.
BAELOTH: To task! (from here)  <END DIALOG.>
VOLO: When authors write about haunted houses in books or for shows, -this- is the exact imagery I expected!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: It’s imposing, totally uninviting, and just -begging- to be filled with trouble!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, I didn’t know what to expect from Spellhold, but good people don’t live here.  Evil and -crazy- people do!  Just look at the place!
It looks like a wizard’s castle.
HULL: Yeah, kid, a -crazy- wizard’s castle!  This place is haunted and -you- know it!
Imoen’s in there?!  Yikes!
HULL: C’mon, kid!  You can do it!  You beat Sarevok!  We’re just going inside!
Let’s go.
HULL: You be on your guard, kid, and I’ll be on mine!  <END DIALOG.>
Forest of Tethir After Returning the Rhynn Lanthorn to Elhan
VOLO: The secluded elven city awaits us, my friend!  <END DIALOG.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: The elf city is ahead, however you pronounce it.  Get ready to fight, kid!  <END DIALOG.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Suldanessellar shall soon see our strength!  So long, civilization!  <END DIALOG.>
Resurrection Gorge
<If Drizzt is in the party.>
DRIZZT: I have only dreamed of finding places so beautiful outside the glowing luminescence of the Underdark and its fluorescent fungus.  Here it is on full display!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: -This- is a land worth conquering!
<If Trinden is in the party.>
TRINDEN: <Trinden inhales deeply.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: Ah, behold!  A place of natural beauty and likely an abundance of resources!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: -This- is a land worth conquering!
TRINDEN: You act as if rulers want to avoid lush lands like these.  Natural beauty is beautiful -because- of its potential, -not- merely to be seen nor painted!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Volo is in the party.>
VOLO: My friend, what a -beautiful- sight!  It is as if the gods made this place anew -explicitly- for us to see on this trip!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Baeloth is in the party.>
BAELOTH: This place is portrayed as an in-person picturesque pastel painting parted by departing plant life.  Pretty!
<Choosing any of these stronghold-related dialog options advances the text to the ‘Regardless’ section.>
[If CHARNAME controls the stronghold for Druid] How does it compare to my stronghold?
BAELOTH: Your grove is simply a shaded sanctuary where civilization welcomes the wild.
[If CHARNAME controls the stronghold for Ranger] How does it compare to my stronghold?
BAELOTH: What you call a cabin is but a consolation prize compared to the view of this venue.
[If CHARNAME controls the stronghold for Shaman] How does it compare to my stronghold?
BAELOTH: Your swampy sanctuary is ugly and unimpressive.  Only otyughs would be welcome within.
[If CHARNAME controls the stronghold for Wizard] How does it compare to my stronghold?
BAELOTH: Your question is quite rhetorical.  An apparatus of violence across the planes cannot compare to this place, nor is it worthy of my finishing this sentence.
BAELOTH: Regardless, let us survey this spot, for surely good will come.
<END DIALOG IF DORN ISN’T IN PARTY.>
<If Dorn is in the party.>
DORN: I expected more from you, -drow-, not what could pass as simple-minded poetry!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Our violent venture will wait a bit, but our reprieve has ended.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: Wow, kid!  Look at this place!  It’s like someone made a beautiful nature painting come alive!
<Choosing any of these stronghold-related dialog options advances the text to the ‘Regardless’ section.>
[If CHARNAME controls the stronghold for Druid] How does it compare to my stronghold?
HULL: Your place has a stone circle and lotsa green, but I like the colors of this gorge more!
[If CHARNAME controls the stronghold for Ranger] How does it compare to my stronghold?
HULL: If you could move your ranger cabin here, it would be so scenic!  Better than the Shade Lord’s woods!
[If CHARNAME controls the stronghold for Shaman] How does it compare to my stronghold?
HULL: It beats your swampy pit any day, kid!
HULL: But anyway.  Let’s look around s’more!
<END DIALOG IF DORN ISN’T IN PARTY.>
<If Dorn is in the party.>
DORN: Your sentimentality sickens me, Hull!  
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull quietly rolls his eyes at Dorn.>
<END DIALOG REGARDLESS.>
BAELOTH: Oohoohoohoo, I'm gonna work out some anger on you. (from here)
DRIZZT: I derive no pleasure from punishing the wickedness of my surface brethren, but it is necessary.  Come, <CHARNAME>!
HULL: Here we are, kid, elf land.  Let’s send Irenicus to Hell where he belongs!
VOLO: Time to head where few outsiders to the elven lands have trod!  To Suldanessellar, my friend!  <END DIALOG.>
BAELOTH: Oh, ho ho!  An apocalypse for elven arrogance!
What do you mean, Baeloth?
BAELOTH: It was recently reported to me by a reputable source that an elven archmage was exiled.  How convenient that -these- elves get to feel the full fury of an -age- of arrogance!
Are you happy because it’s the surface elves who are seemingly the villains here instead of the drow?
BAELOTH: <Baeloth grins snidely.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Pale-skinned barbarians. (from here)
Less talk, more action.  Onward, Baeloth!
BAELOTH: So be it! (from here) <END DIALOG.>
Tree of Life
<Display this after the dialog with Ellesime.>
BAELOTH: Fresh air?  Bird song?  Wind whistling through the branches?  I despise it all! (from here)
<Display this after the dialog with Ellesime.>
ELLESIME: Do it quickly, Child of Bhaal!  If Jon drains the Tree of Life, all of Suldanessellar is doomed... and Jon will have the power he craves!  Please, you *must* stop him!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Oh, ho ho!  Before this morning, I never expected the elven queen to be -begging- me to help!  This hope helps my blackened heart beat faster!
Baeloth, get over yourself.  Now is NOT the time to celebrate!  We haven’t even beaten Irenicus yet!
BAELOTH: Whatever happens with the exiled elf, her words are a victory for all drowkind!  I can see it now as we meet the queen!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Fall to your knees and beg for mercy.  I’m sure you know the drill.  (from here)
You do have a point, Baeloth.  It was a relief to see the elves put down a notch!
BAELOTH: Ooh, that felt good! (from AoN: Baeloth sound set)
Baeloth, I thought you were better than that!
BAELOTH: Being -despised- by my distant kin and -hated- for my black skin and underground heritage has a way of making me want to rub it in the face and in the groin of every elf who’s so proud of himself for being right that his head should be stuck up his ass like an aberration!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: So, no, <CHARNAME>, I am -absolutely- taking this opportunity to piss on the elves who pissed off my ancestors!
Petty revenge won’t solve anything!
BAELOTH: I am Baeloth Barrityl, Showman of Showmen and Entertainer of Entertainers!  I amuse mortals -en masse- with tales of ‘petty revenge.’
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: I would be a poor practitioner of my profession if I did not.  (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: It inspires fighters, even if it caused me to perish in my inaugural Black Pits!
What do you make of this situation?
BAELOTH: Oh, ho, ho!  What have we here?  Our exiled elf is exciting the environment, endangering it!
Anyway, Baeloth, we still need to -help- the elven queen for her to live long enough to help us in return!
BAELOTH: Yes, I know. (from here)  <END DIALOG WITH BAELOTH.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: <Baeloth wickedly grins!>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Oohoohoohoo, I'm gonna work out some anger on you. (from here)
DRIZZT: What sacrilege for this exiled Irenicus to interfere with this most sacred Tree of Life!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: <CHARNAME>, my friend, be ready for a fight that shall go down in -history!-
VOLO: The mad mage Irenicus is near!  It is time for the antagonist to fall so we heroes may be promoted in the eyes of the world and improve our abilities in the process!
Volo, why are you so sure of this?
VOLO: That is how storytelling -works!-
Let’s go, Volo!
VOLO: Onward, to victory!
HULL: I got a plan, kid!  When we finally stare down Irenicus, point to me and I’ll taunt him.  That oughta confuse him enough to break his focus!
Hull, why do you believe that will work?
HULL: He needs focus to do his god ritual, kid.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Besides, no one likes being interrupted, kid.  It’s like Fuller kicking me in the butt to get up for duty after a night of drinking when I was hung over!
Let’s assume you taunt him.  Then what?
HULL: Knock him DEAD, kid!
Noted, Hull.  If it seems opportune, I’ll point to you and you distract him!
HULL: Good, kid!  Let’s finish this fight TODAY if we can!  <END DIALOG WITH HULL.>
Watcher’s Keep
BAELOTH: We can -finally- watch the watchers of Watcher’s Keep.  From what I’ve read, this castle’s interior is a colossal coliseum kept to contain a copious count of curs.
Curs?  What?
BAELOTH: What else do you call people in an interplanar prison?  Patrons?
How do you know about this place, Baeloth?
BAELOTH: Some curious customer of the Copper Coronet kept books of certain subjects before he became a contender and I kept them from his corpse.
Let’s go, Baeloth.  Progress awaits.
BAELOTH: <Baeloth flashes you a knowing smile.>  <END DIALOG.> 
VOLO: Ah, my friend!  Behold!  This is Watcher’s Keep, a place mentioned rarely in the writings of Candlekeep and beyond for its -treasure- and -danger!-
What sort of treasure and danger are we talking about, here?
VOLO: The texts did not specify, but I must assume this -magnificent- place has plenty of each!
We’ll handle it, Volo.  Let’s move on.
VOLO: Certainly, my friend!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: An ancient fortress awaits us with age-old traps and dangers so ancient that creatures outside have forgotten or never known them.
Trinden, what makes you say -that?-
TRINDEN: Large fortresses like this far from civilization that radiate magic from their exterior as this place does are asking to be cleansed of their problems and cleared of their treasure.  It is the nature of things.
You sound like an expert!
TRINDEN: Thank you.  I have advised in the building of subterranean fortresses on my world and plundered plenty throughout the planes.
Let’s conquer this place, Trinden!
TRINDEN: Be on your guard!  No doubt, this is no place for novices, and any being powerful enough to construct and maintain such infrastructure is worthy of his wealth and ability!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: This place looks like Watcher’s Keep!  I read about this place in Candlekeep!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: A buncha Priests of Helm made this big place for... somethin’.  Probably a fortress or a prison by the looks of it.
To hold what?
HULL: Treasure and danger!  What else?
Let’s go Hull.  Another keep awaits!
HULL: Yeah, kid!  Let’s keep at it!  <END DIALOG.>
ToB: VISITING LOCATIONS FOR THE FIRST TIME
Abazigal’s Lair Exterior
HULL: We’re in Aba... Abby’s Lair!  Lair means dragon!  Dragon where?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: What -dreadful- decor for a dragon’s domain!  It mostly matches its acrid odor!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: Another majestic creature we have been sent to slay!  I am up to the task, but the elimination of another dragon from our world seems like needless violence!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: The legacy and majesty of dragons is here!  If only we had more time to appreciate this place!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: Worry not, my company.  I have no intention of allying myself with a dragon because of some distant draconic heritage!
<CONTINUE SCENE.>
Dennaton’s Arena AKA Black Pits II - Gladiators of Thay (Neera’s ToB Quest)
TRINDEN: AMBUSH!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: What madness is this?!  Prepare to fight!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Oh, damnit!  Some caster just overcomplicated things!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Why are we in an arena?!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Why am I asking questions and not fighting?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Oh, ho, ho!  Did I just cast a Wish spell?  My dreams of organized war are coming true!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: This fine fixture is suitably sized for a bloody bevy of brawls!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VICROSS: Wait!  Neera and the Bhaalspawn, in Priador?  How did you follow me?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NEERA: Oh, I don’t know.  Maybe it was your WILD SURGE that did it.  Fraud!  Coward!  Killer of your own kind!  Come on, <CHARNAME>!  Let’s get her!
<Continue with Neera’s dialog as normal.>
Forest of Tethyr
BAELOTH: Such a flock of foliage flourishes around us! (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: However, what a relief!  Hell is behind us and... disgustingly fresh air is around us!  I already smell the animal sewage!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Still, this place looks dangerous and ominous in its own delightful way.
Now that you mention it, this place feels unwelcoming.
BAELOTH: Did you -not- expect that exiled Irenicus to have a collection of contingencies - spell or otherwise - if we countered his conspiracy?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Even in death he may be mockingly making rude gestures at us!
It’s better than Hell, -that’s- for sure!
BAELOTH: What an -obvious- observation.
Let’s look around.  Be on your guard.
BAELOTH: Trap at your toes!  Step softly. (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: <Baeloth winks.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: What a relief!  At least those hellish horrors are -behind- us!
Don’t you have anything more... poetic to say, Volo?
VOLO: Gratitude in all things leads to a longer life!
What do you say about the giant stone heads around here?
VOLO: Well, whoever or whatever put them here has a -very- specific taste for decoration!
Let’s look around, Volo.
VOLO: Certainly, my friend!  <END DIALOG.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Phew!  We’re odda Hell and in paradise!
But I don’t like it here!
HULL: Shut up, kid.  Pretty much -anywhere- is better than Hell!
It’s either paradise or close enough compared to where we’ve been lately!
HULL: Yeah!  Just watch out for those -giant stone heads-... whatever they are.
Let’s explore this place!
HULL: Gladly, kid!  <END DIALOG.>
Saradush - Exterior
BAELOTH: This arid atmosphere is -atrocious!-  My skin sunders from the sun!
What about when the sun is down?
BAELOTH: What part about -arid atmosphere- do you not understand?!
Let’s get going before this place becomes too arid in the atmosphere for you to exist!
BAELOTH: <Baeloth grunts.>  <END DIALOG.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: It’s hot, it’s bright, and boy is it dry!
Even at night?
HULL: At night, it’s still brighter than Hell!
As opposed to it being cold, dark, and wet?
HULL: Yeah!  Drizzt probably would say somethin’ like that about Icewind Dale at night!
HULL: That’s it.
Another day, another crisis - or at least that’s how it seemed to me.
HULL: I see your point, kid - and raise you double!
Let’s get going before this place becomes too hot, too bright, or too dry!
HULL: <Hull nods.>  <END DIALOG.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Such a remote and desolate place, and yet many would call it home!
Even you, Volo?
VOLO: Not -this- city specifically, but this nation of Calimshan is my homeland with Volothamp being my home city.
How much do you miss home?
VOLO: As a man who has spent his life traveling, not much, my friend.  I am at home on the road nowadays - with or without your company.
Tell me more about your home city.
VOLO: I am sorry, my friend, but I lived there briefly when I was a child.  I recall vague memories of a hot, bright sun with the occasional sunburn, many statues of jewels of the desert, and a plethora of ships that were lucky to get us away from the city since they were in such poor condition!
Anything else?
VOLO: Well, Elminster did say that he heard whisperings of Bhaalspawn migrating to Saradush and that it was an orcish settlement, but I suspect nothing else I can tell you matters much at this point, my friend.  This is something we must learn about together!
Let’s get going before all the excitement leaves this place!
VOLO: Agreed, my friend!  <END DIALOG.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: <Trinden pauses and inhales the desert air deeply.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: So far from my birth plane and this place reminds me of home.
That sounds like news!  Tell me more!
TRINDEN: I was born in a desert far from civilization, but it was my uncle who transformed a shanty town port city into the Jenneport I knew - a thriving metropolis filled with trade houses specializing in metaphysical practices and wares!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: The desert air was dry and the sun was hot and bright, but various devices throughout the city mitigated the worst of these pains.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: Something - perhaps an instinct - tells me this city is a city intrigue!
Do you miss home?
TRINDEN: That is a trick question, for by leaving home and amply traveling, what I consider to be ‘home’ has radically changed in addition to my home radically changing.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: We can discuss matters more another time.
What else?
TRINDEN: If I understand things correctly, handling the matters of this city will somehow be key to fulfilling your destiny.  The details were not explained to me like a well-laid out schematic.
Onward, Trinden!  Progress awaits.
TRINDEN: That it does.  <END DIALOG.>
Candlekeep (BGT or EET Only)
<If Baeloth is in the party.>
BAELOTH: So, -this- is the stronghold that raised you.  Sturdy and secure, but nowhere near invincible.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Some sappy sage said, “Home is where the heart is.”  By now, -his- home has disintegrated into -dust!-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hubelpot is in the party.>
HUBELPOT: Welcome home, <CHARNNAME>!  Candlekeep looks majestic at this hour, and the sea breeze and salty air are good for my mood.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HUBELPOT: This -is- the place where you were taught to eat your veggies to become big and strong, -right?-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Trinden is in the party.>
TRINDEN: I can tell that this is or -was- your home.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: Now that you are old enough to decide more of your life for yourself, its meaning changed to you.  No longer does it nurture you like it once did, but instead inspires your curiosity to know what has changed since you have outgrown it.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: At least the structure of your home still stands.  There are worse fates for one’s childhood dwelling.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Drizzt is in the party.>
DRIZZT: <Drizzt stares at Candlekeep, takes a deep breath, then looks at <CHARNAME>.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: Home is a fickle thing, <CHARNAME>.  One day, you are welcome, and then, suddenly, you are exiled just for being -you.-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: I know that feeling all too well.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Volo is in the party.>
VOLO: Well, my friend, this seems like -quite- the homecoming after all this time!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Worry not, my friend!  I have spare parchment pages to dry your tears!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: <Hull sighs and smiles, a tear falling down his face.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, there’s no place like home.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Imoen is in the party.>
IMOEN: So much has changed.  I’ve changed.  You’ve changed, <CHARNAME>.  We aren’t the innocent children we were when ol’ Puffgutts was teaching me thievery, or when Gorion was teaching us about the world.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: Whatever we’re doing here, let’s just get it done.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Sarevok is in the party.>
SAREVOK: <CHARNAME>, -this- is the gilded cage where you grew up instead of the rough streets of Baldur’s Gate!  If only -I- had been so fortunate!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SAREVOK: All I could do was -visit- this place and steer Alaundo’s prophecies to be about -me!-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SAREVOK: <Sarevok grunts and snorts in disapproval.>
<If Hull isn’t in the party, end dialog here.  If Hull is in the party, regardless of the presence of other party members, continue this dialog tree.>
HULL: So, kid, whadda ya say?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
Hull, I know.  <sniff>  I know.
HULL: The smell of the plants, the crunch of the path, the feeling of the gentle sea breeze...
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, I had to leave it to experience it freshly again.
This place looks smaller than I remember.
HULL: Maybe you’re just taller!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Null laughs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Or maybe we’ve traveled around so much that this gilded cage we called home doesn’t seem so big anymore!
Part of me wishes we didn’t come back here, Hull.  I have too many memories I’d rather -not- remember.
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Me too, kid.  Me too.
We left home but home never left us, Hull, no matter how far we were from it.
HULL: I know, kid.  I know.
This -was- home, Hull.  We live on the road now, or in the Pocket Plane.  I’d rather just move on.
HULL: Huh.  I thought you’d like this place more, kid, but I see your point.
Let’s just get going, Hull.
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Alright, kid.  Alright.
Elysium (Longer Road Mod)
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: This place is -beautiful-, kid!  Let’s just take a moment to enjoy being in the upper planes for a change!
Do you want this to be your afterlife?
HULL: Maybe one day, kid.
I wish we could stay here longer, too.
HULL: <Hull smiles and sighs, relieved.>
As great as this may be for you, Hull, I’m not fully convinced it’s for me.
HULL: <Hull shrugs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Well, if Hell suits you better, kid, you can live there!
Let’s go, Hull.
HULL: Yeah, yeah, I’m comin’!  <END DIALOG.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Baeloth is in the party.>
BAELOTH: Bright, blinding sun! I'll seek out some shade.  (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Ahem.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: So -this- is what it’s like to be in this part of the upper planes!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: I can see you inquisitively peering at me.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: What noble notions noodle through your noggin? (from here)
So, Baeloth, what do you think about this place?
BAELOTH: Copious colors.  Brilliant beauty.  Sentimental songs.  A refreshing and yet a revolting reality.
Revolting?  What?
BAELOTH: If the ‘purity’ and ‘perfection’ of this plane cannot permit plentiful gladiation, I am put off!
Is Hell better?
BAELOTH: No, no, no.  Let me elucidate my stance:   Hell is home to a -humongous- number of glorious gladiators, but is no place to -live.-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Being eternally subject to torments beyond telling is no way to enjoy anyone’s afterlife!
Perhaps if you changed your ways, you would be accepted here in your afterlife!
BAELOTH: I plan to live forever.  How about you?
How do you plan to do -that?-
BAELOTH: It’s a secret to everybody else.
If you’re saying that Elysium is overrated, I agree.
BAELOTH: -Exactly!-
Onward, Baeloth.
BAELOTH: Enjoy the fleeting beauty of this plane before circumstances corral us into more mundane or malignant environs.  <END DIALOG.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Volo is in the party.>
VOLO: My friend, what a -beautiful- place we visit!  It is as if every color, every sweet sound, and every pleasant scent is accentuated!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: <Volo sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: But I know our purpose here is only passing.  Perhaps one day we shall dwell in such a wonderful place!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: There’s simply -too much- I want to do in this life before retiring to my afterlife, my friend!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Trinden is in the party.>
TRINDEN: The vibrancy of this environment and its colors are like a well-crafted shadow Illusion.
Trinden, one more time - in layman’s terms.
TRINDEN: I have been witness to many arcane Illusions on my home plane, including some done for entertainment.  Shadow Illusions are partially physical due to their interactions with the Plane of Shadow.
What do you think about dwelling here for your afterlife?
TRINDEN: Elysium is a beautiful place and one intended to be welcoming.  It is home to purity.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: My answer is, “Perhaps.”  What are my other options?  Let us perform a cost-benefit analysis on them as well.
A scientific approach to the afterlife?  That’s new!
TRINDEN: Whatever term you use, I simply want the best deal.
Let’s go, Trinden.
TRINDEN: Certainly.  <END DIALOG.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Drizzt is in the party.>
DRIZZT: Ah, what a plane for a warrior’s rest!  Surely, this is a home to light and goodness throughout the cosmos!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: But woe be to evildoers who would seek to taint this plane with their -foul- schemes!
Would you like this to be your afterlife, Drizzt?
DRIZZT: The sounds, the sights, and the radiant beauty have convinced me that -this- or something much like it would be a welcoming eternal home at the right time!
What is most beautiful to you about this plane?
DRIZZT: <CHARNAME>, it is beauty for every sense, but it is -intentional- beauty!  It is not the excitement of successful die roll, nor something that felt like it happened by mere chance.
Are you sure this beauty is not too much?
DRIZZT: How can anything ever be -too- beautiful, my friend?
Onward, Drizzt!
DRIZZT: <Drizzt inhales slowly and deeply, then sighs.>  <END DIALOG.>
Lunia (BG2EE/EET - Dorn’s ToB Companion Quest)
<If Trinden is in the party.>
TRINDEN: Marvel at perfection, for it is fleeting.  Our very presence here diminishes the beauty of this plane.
Trinden, care to explain?
TRINDEN: I have had some unpleasant experiences in the Upper Planes.
Condemned by angels?
TRINDEN: No.  My uncle sent me to soul trap an angel - which is a story for another time.
Are you sure that beauty is fleeting simply because we are here?
TRINDEN: <Trinden takes a deep breath.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: Every moment we are here, the beauty of this place diminishes to us.  It is simply the nature of natural beings in this environment.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: Certainly, Modify Memory spells and other metaphysical means can aid in our reappreciation of such beauty, but there is no time like the first - nor the present.
Let’s go, Trinden.
TRINDEN: <Trinden nods.>  <END DIALOG.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Baeloth is in the party.>
BAELOTH: Is that... moonlight?  Surely, I was surprised!
Any plans to wish upon a star?
BAELOTH: I’ve had ample agitation from wishing upon a genie!
Point taken.  What about wishing upon a star?
BAELOTH: I consider star wishing a -strange- tradition.  Since when does a monstrous molten meteor have wondrous wish-granting abilities?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Never have my Meteor Swarm spells doubled as Wish spells!  If they did, that would be -fabulously- fortuitous and -excitingly- efficient!
<If Dorn is in the party.>
DORN: Let us not forget why we are here!
Lunia is at the base of Mount Celestia.  Look up and you should see it!
BAELOTH: Hmm.  It’s like the infinite chasm of the Abyss, but inverted.
Do you want this place to be your afterlife?
BAELOTH: I plan to live forever.  How about you?
How do you plan to do -that?-
BAELOTH: It’s a secret to everybody else.
What do you think of this place?
BAELOTH: I was never one to want to live in the shadow of another.  The massive mountain bequeaths to us a shadow so substantial that Sigil may blush!
Onward, Baeloth.
BAELOTH: <Baeloth nods and shrugs.>  <END DIALOG.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: Starry, starry night.
Did you wish upon a star?
HULL: Sure did, kid!
What did you wish for?
HULL: A peaceful, prosperous ending to this Bhaalspawn saga.  
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I’m here to help ya, kid, but I’ve felt like it’s been GO, GO, GO ever since we left Candlekeep that fateful day.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Dorn is in the party.>
DORN: <Dorn snorts in disapproval and disgust.>
I heard this is the plane of Mount Celestia.
HULL: So -that’s- where we are?  Well, it’s pretty and I like it!
Do you want this place to be your afterlife?
HULL: Maybe, kid.  I like how it’s calm, beautiful, and welcoming.  I wonder if -all- the upper planes are this way.
As great as this may be for you, Hull, I’m not fully convinced it’s for me.
HULL: <Hull shrugs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Well, if Hell suits you better, kid, you can live there!
Let’s go, Hull.
HULL: Maybe we’ll see the sun rise around here!  <END DIALOG.>
BAELOTH: The aridness of this atmosphere has reached a new, extreme level of unpleasant intensity!
[If it’s night] Hull!  Even at night, Baeloth?
BAELOTH: The lack of luminescence is lovely, but the dry desert has compromised my comeliness!
Pain or pleasure, we still have a job to finish.
BAELOTH: Obviously.  Onward!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: <Baeloth quietly grumbles.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Damned sand!
Onward, Baeloth!
BAELOTH: Yes, yes.  Onward.  And watch out for malignant godlings.  <END DIALOG.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: What good can exist so far in the desert, I wonder?  I have an intuition this is not a very welcoming place.
DRIZZT: Remote outposts may be oases in harsh places, but likely house those of ill repute who wish to discreetly handle their dealings.
What advice do you have?
DRIZZT: <CHARNAME>, my friend, my typical recommendation still stands:  Be on your guard, for we dwell in dangerous times.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: <Drizzt shakes his head and sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: Would that it were not so!
Let’s go, Drizzt!
DRIZZT: <Drizzt nods.>  <END DIALOG.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: I suppose it’s too late to tell you I never liked deserts much.
Let me guess:  The sand is coarse, the land is dry, the environment wants you dead, and travel is mostly boring.
VOLO: -Precisely-, my friend!
At least you’re with me for the long haul, right Volo?
VOLO: Certainly, my friend!  That part should be obvious!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: You deserve the fame - or infamy as the case may be - for seeing this Bhaalspawn Saga to its very conclusion!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Of -course- I shall be here, chronicling our adventure together!  The world deserves to know!
What can you tell us about Amkethran?
VOLO: According to my brief research, Amkethran is a trading outpost run by smugglers, brigands, and other outcasts.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-
VOLO: Amkethran is barely a dot on a map and barely a note in a book.  I felt fortunate to find even a single mention of this place in some obscure tome!
Talking about our desert adventure doesn’t stop us from needing to undergo it to fulfill my destiny.  Onward, Volo!
VOLO: Certainly, my friend!  <END DIALOG.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: Pause here a moment.  This outpost seemed eerily familiar.
You’ve barely been on this plane and this outpost seems familiar?  Explain!
TRINDEN: On my home plane, I visited a similar desert outpost that was inhabited by sentient Constructs who were some of the best metaphysical artisans available.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: The atmosphere was similarly hostile and dry and the placement of this outpost - Amarice as it was called - were similar on a surface level.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: Perhaps it was nostalgia and wish fulfillment talking in believing that these two locales were somehow intimately connected.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: This outpost is likely devoid of Constructs and most likely hostile.
Does traveling make you feel philosophical, Trinden?
TRINDEN: Not innately.  Some things were so striking that they warranted further examination.
Tell me more about Amarice.
TRINDEN: A well-intentioned request, but one that would take too long to properly explain now.  Perhaps another time.
Let’s go, Trinden.
TRINDEN: <Trinden inhales deeply then nods.>  <END DIALOG.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: It’s hot, it’s bright, and boy is it dry!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Our journey here is thirsty work, kid!
[If it’s night] Hull!  It’s night!  Can’t you see that?
HULL: The moonlight is so bright that it’s like sunlight, kid!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Or maybe I just need s’more drinks.
That doesn’t excuse us from finishing what we set out to do.
HULL: I know, kid.  I know.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull winks at <CHARNAME>.>
I’ve been thinking a -lot- lately, Hull.
HULL: Thinking’s good if you’re thinkin’ about winnin’!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But what about, kid?
Consider just how far we’ve come from Candlekeep.  We’re here, hundreds of miles from home, and a -lot- stronger compared to when we left.
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You’re right, kid.  We -have- changed the world ‘n’ gotten better along the way!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I’m not likin’ the thoughts of what coulda happened if we were ‘normal’ and just stayed in Candlekeep.
More staring at walls?
HULL: <Hull smirks.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Yeah, but we woulda been forgotten.  Sure, our friends might remember us, but, at best, we woulda been a footnote in some history book.  Now, we can have a whole page!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I’m not likin’ the thoughts of what coulda happened if we were ‘normal’ and just stayed in Candlekeep.
-If- we were just ordinary folks staying in Candlekeep, life likely would have been more peaceful.
HULL: <Hull ponders.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Really, though?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: War still probably would’ve happened between Amn and Baldur’s Gate.  We might’ve been protected from the worst of it, but I dunno.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Would there still be Bhaalspawn fighting like this?  It all depends on how you figure, kid.
Is this the sort of adventure you dreamed of having in Candlekeep?
HULL: Chasing after Bhaal’s kids in the middle of a desert?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Not at all, kid!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But if you meant just getting out and seeing the world, yeah.  Sorta.
<Pick One.>
What do you mean, “Sorta?”
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: In Candlekeep, I didn’t think we’d be out here fulfilling Alaundo’s prophecy about the dead God of Murder’s living kids which means you too!
Do you think Gorion knew this sort of thing would happen?
HULL: <Hull shrugs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I -think-, and I’m making my best guess here, kid, that Gorion had an -idea- of where you’d go after leaving Candlekeep.  I didn’t think he’d be leadin’ you out into this desert!
I see your point, Hull.
HULL: And I raise you, double!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull smirks at <CHARNAME>.>
Onward, Hull!
HULL: Sure, kid.  Just be on your guard.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: This whole desert fortress thing seems suspicious.  Normal people don’t build these things.  I think.  <END DIALOG.>
Plane of Shadow (BG2EE/EET - Rasaad’s ToB Companion Quest)
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: I’m not sure why, but I expected more color from this Plane of Shadow.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-
HULL: Time to bust up some villain and paint this place red!
<If Baeloth is in the party.>
BAELOTH: The shifting shadows surround us with their eerie illuminations!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-
BAELOTH: What a welcoming place this is!  No blindingly bright sun to beat us back!
You’re crazy, Baeloth!
BAELOTH: Implicit insanity is an indelible designation of innovation and intelligence!
You’re still crazy.
BAELOTH: Ponder my previous statement.
Whatever the decor, we must move on.
BAELOTH: Back to business I bet.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-
BAELOTH: Time to tell what color blood is on this plane!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Drizzt is in the party.>
DRIZZT: This is the dreaded Plane of Shadow, used to fuel illusions!  It is uncomfortably familiar to my former home in the Underdark due to its drabness and unwelcome way it twists reality!
Have any better ideas on how to stop our target on this plane than reminisce?
DRIZZT: <CHARNAME>, I apologize if I seemed impractical.  The resemblance of these places is -striking!-
Ready to play the hero once more, Drizzt?
DRIZZT: Certainly, my friend!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Volo is in the party.>
VOLO: I somehow expected more from the illustrious Plane of Shadow, the plane that touches EVERY reality!
Now is no time to go plane hopping, Volo!
VOLO: Yes, yes.  I know we have a job to do, my friend.  Actually -being- on this plane after hearing about it so much has been... conflicting.
VOLO: On its own, the Plane of Shadow is not very interesting.  It’s a less colorful version of various realities.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: But the -potential- to reach EVERY reality from here?  -That- intrigues me, my friend!  If only we had -time- now to visit some of the more exotic places in the multiverse - for research purposes, of course!
We have a villain to stop and the show must go on!
VOLO: How true!  I shall be ready for my cue!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Trinden is in the party.>
TRINDEN: We are in the space between spaces and the reality between realities - the Plane of Shadow.  It is a mockery of life and a dark mirror of its contents.
What else should I know about this place?
TRINDEN: Some places on this plane are affiliated with negative energy and undeath.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Volo is also in the party.>
VOLO: I must say, you are -quite- the scholar of esoteric topics!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: <Trinden nods.>
How do you know all this about the Shadow Plane?
TRINDEN: My understanding of the planes comes more from necessity than mere curiosity.  Having been effectively exiled from my home plane through a portal that closed soon after entering it, and being barred from Plane Shifting since my home plane was effectively isolated from the rest of the multiverse through a barrier erected by beings more powerful than me, I sought means to return home.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: Circumstances were such that the barrier existed even on the Plane of Shadow, preventing an easy return that way.
This sounds like quite a tale!
TRINDEN: It is, and I have written of it in my book.
Thanks, but we have a job to do here.  Onward, Trinden!
TRINDEN: It is time to revolutionize this pocket of reality!  <END DIALOG>
MOD: VISITING LOCATIONS FOR THE FIRST TIME 
Most Noble Order of the Radiant Heart Building - Interior
<If Volo is in the party.>
VOLO: Well, my friend, this most welcoming place is certainly -splendid!-  I can feel its warm, welcoming aura already!
VOLO: Can you not see the -magnificence- of the -architecture- here, the rare materials used in this construction, and how everything seems to try to be heavenly and of the highest quality?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Nalia is also in the party.>
NALIA: Volo, please stop.  I know you mean well, but this, this... opulence could have been used better to feed those in need!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Perhaps, my lady.  Perhaps.  But remember:  This is a -noble- organization!  It is easier to fight evil with wealth than poverty!
BG2: FACTION MEETINGS FOR SPELLHOLD ACCESS (BODHI OF THE VAMPIRES, GAELAN BAYLE OF THE SHADOW THIEVES, BRUS FOR THE ALTERNATIVES MOD)
Party Meets with Bodhi: Just Before Agreeing to Her Terms
HULL: Alright, kid.  Are you SURE we should go after Imoen by helping these undead?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: It just seems suspicious that the undead would want us alive instead of enslaved or dead like them.  There’s -gotta- be a better way, kid!
Hull, we’re still siding with these guys.  They’re trustworthy enough.
HULL: I don’t like it, kid, but you know something I don’t.  <Continue dialog with Bodhi about accepting her help for Spellhold access.>
On second thought, let’s not agree to their terms yet.
HULL: I fully agree, kid!  <END DIALOG.>
Party Meets with Gaelan Bayle: Just Before Agreeing to His Terms
HULL: Alright, kid.  Are you SURE we should go after Imoen by helping the Shadow Thieves?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I’m glad they got you out of prison.  I just wonder if there’s a better option.
Hull, we’re still siding with these guys.  They’re trustworthy enough.
HULL: Since you say so, kid.  <Continue dialog with Gaelan Bayle about accepting his help for Spellhold access.>
On second thought, let’s not agree to their terms yet.
HULL: Agreed, kid.  <END DIALOG.>
[ALTERNATIVES MOD ASSASSIN ROUTE] Party Meets with Malficus: Just Before Agreeing to His Terms
HULL: Kid, I don’t trust this guy.  You’ve done his dirty work enough to know better, kid.  At least the Shadow Thieves sprung ya from prison.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: How do you trust him enough not to get backstabbed over this deal?
Hull, we’re in this far and we want Imoen.  If I can kill Sarevok and his goons, these guys are trivial.
HULL: Kid, I’d pick the Shadow Thieves over these guys ANY day!
You’re right, Hull.  Let’s not agree to their terms just yet.
HULL: <Hull sighs.>  THERE’S your good sense, kid!  <END DIALOG.>
I said what I meant, Hull.  We’re in this deep.  We’re going all the way.
HULL: Know this, kid:  I -was- doing this to help -you-, but now I’m doing this to help -Imoen.-  Gorion would -never- approve of what these guys have done!  <Continue dialog with Malficus about accepting help for Spellhold access.>
On second thought, let’s not agree to their terms yet.
HULL: Remember, we’re all entitled to my opinion.  Ya proved that here, kid!  <END DIALOG.>
[ALTERNATIVES MOD PALADIN ROUTE] Party Finishes Meeting with Brus in Government District After Hearing the Terms
HULL: Yeah, kid.  This seems like a good lead.  Let’s go!
[ALTERNATIVES MOD PALADIN ROUTE] Party Meets with Aster, Paladin of Lathander: Just Before Agreeing to His Terms
HULL: Alright, kid.  THIS sounds like the right way to handle going after Imoen.  No moral quandaries.  These guys are paladins!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But I know it’s your choice, kid.  Whatcha say, kid?
Hull, paladins are as trustworthy as water is wet.  Let’s do it!
HULL: I’m -glad- you agree, kid.  <Continue dialog with Aster about accepting help for Spellhold access.>
On second thought, let’s not agree to their terms yet.
HULL: You sure, kid?  -I- trust ‘em!
You’re right, Hull.  We’ve come this far with them.  Let’s go all the way!
HULL: -That’s- the spirit, kid!  <Continue dialog with Aster.>
I said what I meant, Hull.  I’m not committing to their terms yet.
HULL: I object, kid, but maybe there’s a better way.  <END DIALOG.>
BG2: SAILING TO SPELLHOLD
These dialogs only trigger once and only if Hull is in the party.
        For the dialogs that occur before setting sail to Spellhold/Brynnlaw, assume they’re the same for all factions (Shadow Thieves, Bodhi’s Brood, Aster’s Paladins, and Malficus’s Assassins) unless otherwise noted.
Just Before Setting Sail
HULL: Since we’re settin’ sail to go after a crazy mage and Imoen in a wizard prison, and this might be a suicide mission, I propose a toast, here ‘n’ now!
<Pick one of these.>
To Imoen!
HULL: Let’s go get her, kid!
To our homeland, Candlekeep!
HULL: Let’s make ‘em proud!
To Gorion!
HULL: Let’s go get her, kid!
To victory!
HULL: I like your style, kid!  We can do this!
To an aquatic adventure!
HULL: To avoiding pirates and sea monsters!
To lots of drinking before we set sail!
HULL: Time to try that moderation stuff in moderation!  Just don’t get seasick before we set sail, kid!
To a happy ending to Gorion’s quest for me and us!
HULL: <Hull sighs.>  Yeah.  Let’s finish our adventure and enjoy the happily ever after!
<Play the gulp (potion drinking) sound effect.>
HULL: One more thing, kid.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <singing> Weeeeeeeeeee’re sailiiiiiiing awaaaaaaaaaaaaay!
You sing, Hull?  That’s news!
HULL: Yeah, kid!  I’m better than when you first got to Candlekeep!  I no longer sound like a gargling zombie!
How did you learn that song?
HULL: I heard a dwarf sing it a bunch.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I think he was cursed.  Whenever he started singing it, he couldn’t do anything else until he finished the song!
Set a course for Spellhold!
HULL: That wasn’t the fun response I wanted, but at least you played along!  <END DIALOG WITH HULL.>
<singing> Set a courrrrrrrrse for the oooooooooopen seaaaaaa!
HULL: Good, kid!  You know that song!  Gorion would be proud!  <END DIALOG WITH HULL.>
Yes, Hull.  Now, let’s actually do what you sang.
HULL: <Hull sighs.>  I’ll explain the joke on the way, kid.  <END DIALOG WITH HULL.>
Shut up, Hull.
HULL: Set a courrrrrrrrse for the oooooooooopen seaaaaaa!  
Stop singing.
HULL: I’ve got tooooooo beeeeeee freeeeeee!
Those aren’t the official lyrics!
HULL: I like my version more!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Good, kid!  You know that song!  Gorion would be proud!  <END DIALOG WITH HULL.>1
Sorry, Hull.  I’m not in a singing mood now.  Let’s just move on.
HULL: Sorry, kid.  I’ll teach ya the song on the way.  <END DIALOG WITH HULL.>
I’ve got tooooooo beeeeeee freeeeeee!
HULL: Good, kid!  You know that song!  Gorion would be proud!  <END DIALOG WITH HULL.>
Just After Arrival - No Imoen in the party
HULL: Kid, be on yer guard.  I heard this place was fulla bandits, and -not- the helpful kind!
How do you know this?
HULL: I overheard someone on the crew mention this.
At least they’re probably more trustworthy than whatever’s in Spellhold!
HULL: You got -that- right, kid!
And crazy mages.  And magical experiments.
HULL: Stop, kid, before ya jinx it.
Thanks, Hull.  Let’s go.
HULL: Sure, kid.  <END DIALOG.>
[Imoen 4 Ever Option Enabled: I4E in BGII: Imoen Returns after Talking to Gaelan in Chapter 2 AND Imoen is in the party when they arrive on Brynnlaw Island] Imoen is Taken Captive
<This dialog plays if the party is out of combat.>
HULL: Damnit, kid!  They got Imoen!  Again!
Did you see this coming?
HULL: No, but maybe I shoulda!
At least they likely took her to Spellhold on this same island!
HULL: Yeah.  How convenient!
We’ll get her back, Hull.  Let’s go.
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I know.  I know.  <END DIALOG.>
BG2: SPELLHOLD & BRYNNLAW ISLAND
Spellhold Asylum - Interior
COORDINATOR: I trust you have good reason to be entering this place?  It’s <CHARNAME>, isn’t it?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: We’re here to do a health and safety inspection.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<Continue with dialog tree.>
COORDINATOR: She is in good health, and if you will permit me, I will direct you to her.  This is not a prison, but an institution of healing... and learning.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull turns to <CHARNAME> in silence and shakes his head, frowning.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<Continue with dialog tree.>
Spellhold Asylum - Tour
DILI: Hello!  You are new.  Those your faces?  Funny.  Ha!  Maybe change them.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, maybe this is how Gorion saw you when you were this age.  Being here ‘n’ seeing this just makes me wanna move on.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<Continue with dialog.>
<This is a response to the player-chosen dialog option of “What?  What do you see?”>
APHRIL: Everything... everyone!  Across the planes!  All the time!  My eyes do not close when closed!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <singing> Anything, anywhere, anytime!
Hull, just a moment ago you wanted to leave.  Now you’re joking again?  What’s happening?
HULL: You can be scared or happy.  I’d rather be happy.
How much more singing are you doing, Hull?
HULL: Depends on the occasion, kid.
Let’s just move on.
HULL: Sure, kid.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<Continue with dialog.>
COORDINATOR: This is Tiax.  Not much is known about him.  He was found raving on the side of some road.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TIAX: Tiax rules all!  You are but grease for the wheels of his rule.  Silence the squeaking of those that protest!  He rules all!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, I heard about this crazy gnome scarin’ away people from the Flaming Fist HQ in Baldur’s Gate.
Hull, I think you had more to say about him.
HULL: Yeah, kid.  Tiax was crazy, but being stuck in a small room all the time, starin’ at walls... is just gonna keep you crazy.  I know.  I’ve done it.
What do you propose, Hull?
HULL: I pity him, kid.  I dunno what else we should do about him now.
How much more singing are you doing, Hull?
HULL: Depends on the occasion, kid.
Let’s just move on.
HULL: <Hull nods.>
YOSHIMO REVEALED AS A TRAITOR
<Append this dialog to the scene before the party is captured.>
HULL: Yoshimo, you bastard!  I -never- shoulda trusted that mustache!
<Append this dialog to the scene after the party is captured and before the Spellhold maze.>
YOSHIMO: My service was promised long before I was called on to do this!  I did not know what would come!  I did not know what a filthy creature Irenicus truly was.  I did not!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Lemme guess, he cursed you.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
COORDINATOR: And lastly... the one you seek.  She is quite well, considering the circumstances.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Imoen!  Uncle Hull is here for ya!  Ready to go?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<Continue with dialog tree.>
COORDINATOR: Oh, you misunderstand.  It is fortunate for *me* that you arrived when you did.  I’m quite through with her for the moment.  It is *you* that I am after.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull groans fiercely and stares the coordinator in the eyes!>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<Continue with dialog tree.>
Spellhold Asylum - Maze
<Bodhi finishes her speech and the party can again move about.  Hull speaks.>
HULL: Kid, remind me never to drink again.  I had the -weirdest- dream about watching you run around Candlekeep!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But Imoen’s back with us!  I -think- you’re the real Imoen!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<Continue with Imoen’s dialog.>
IMOEN: Are you all right?  I was so scared...  You came all this way to get me, and we were almost...
<Continue with Imoen’s dialog.>
<Slayer Form Transformation 1.>
<CHARNAME>: The feeling passes, but far too slowly for your liking.
HULL: Uh, kid?  I’m with you if you’re with me.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<Continue other banters.>
<Slayer Form Transformation 2.>
BODHI: What is this?!  A creature of pure death and darkest shadow!  Child of Bhaal, what have you become?!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Uh... 
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BODHI: Away!  Irenicus must know of this!  We will observe from a distance!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, if yer in there, I’ll help ya as I can.  Please... don’t eat me.
<Continue other banters.>
<Slayer Form Transformation 3.>
<CHARNAME>: Your blood cools, and mind and body are reunited under your control.  Your will had faltered and the essence of Bhaal was there to take advantage.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<CHARNAME>: A fate, as they say, worse than death, and one not gone unnoticed by your comrades.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, what the HELL just HAPPENED?!
I’m bad to the bone, Hull.  I thought you knew that!
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, it’s serious time.  What happened?!
This is what Gorion tried hiding me from and warning me about.  I’m sorry, Hull.
HULL: <Hull looks at you for a moment, speechless.  He finally takes a deep breath and speaks.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Shit.
Irenicus did something to me.  He turned me into this... demon!
HULL: I wish I could undo it here ‘n’ now with a snap, kid.
I have embraced that which is my birthright!  I am death, destroyer of worlds, and I have become the conduit of Bhaal, the new Lord of Murder!
HULL: Kid, you belong here.  Like locked up, belong here!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But you also saved us back there, so I’m not sure -what- to think!
Don’t worry, Hull.  I won’t kill you yet.
HULL: As I said, I’m not sure -what- to think!
Lead me to Irenicus so I may eat his flesh, drink his blood, and once again have my soul and my eternal life!
HULL: Yeah!  Righteous wrath of the faithful and all that!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I just hope you aren’t secretly a zombie or a vampire or somethin’.
I felt the bloodlust of Sarevok and channeled it into a form of pure hatred and rage!  No one rapes my soul like that and lives!
HULL: I’m just gonna let that one pass, kid.
I... don’t want to talk about it.
HULL: OK, but expect me to want answers.  Like -now!-
<Continue other banters.>
<Slayer Form Transformation 4 (Sleeping).>
<CHARNAME>: You wake suddenly, a pounding in your ears.  A shock of pain passes through your body, and you feel your mind slipping away, forced aside by the darkness within.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, you looked sick and twisted.  It was like that demon was coming out.
Hull, your day of reckoning is at hand!  Hell is coming!
HULL: Time to put you down!
<END DIALOG.  Begin Slayer transformation.>
Hull, the demon is coming!  Help!
HULL: Sorry, kid.  Every old dog must be put down.
<END DIALOG.  Begin Slayer transformation.>
<Slayer Form Transformation 5.>
<CHARNAME>: The madness fades, and the essence within retreats, but if this continues, you will lose not only yourself, but also everything you hold dear.
I’m me again.  For now.  Thanks for not killing me.
HULL: Kid, this... was worse than I thought.
I couldn’t control it, Hull!  My dark side came out!
HULL: <Hull just shakes his head and sighs.>
I have tasted the essence of death and become a monument to non-existence!  Death shall live once more!
HULL: Hell hath you fury like whatever -you- are!
HULL: Kid, if this keeps happening, I may just hafta kill you or leave.  I’m sorry, kid, but maybe Irenicus had a point in saying you belonged here.
Hull, how DARE you agree with our enemy?!
HULL: He’s a villain, but he had a point!  I’m not saying he’s all right, though.
I see your point, Hull.
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
I think it’s over for real this time.
HULL: It had -better- be, kid!  You aren’t a demon!  Not on -my- watch!
Let’s just go, Hull.  We’ll handle this more later.
HULL: Yeah, kid.  We’ve each been warned.
Spellhold Asylum - Irenicus Meeting/Fight
<Append this to his dialog.>
IRENICUS: You tortured those long before I arrived.  I merely had more purpose to do it.  Bah, I speak with madmen when I should be at my revenge!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Revenge for what?  Not soul sucking well enough?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<Continue with other banters.>
After the Fight
<Append this to Irenicus’s dialog.>
IRENICUS: Here!  Fight amongst the mindless assassins I would sacrifice!  I shall find others to serve my needs!  This place is yours!  I hope it is your tomb!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And take THAT you son of a bitch!
Meeting Saemon Havarian Post-Irenicus in Spellhold
<Append this to the dialog to Saemon’s.>
SAEMON: A truly admirable goal, and I would aid you if you permit it.  You may view me with suspicion, but please take a moment to see my situation for what it is.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Saemon, you played us, but Irenicus wrecked us.  Besides, you’re a good seaman and I see your point.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<Continue with Saemon’s dialog.>
[If the party answers Saemon with “Your tongue may as well be forked.  I trust nothing you say.”]
HULL: Kid, I -know- he’s a traitor, but I just don’t want us rushin’ in after Irenicus and gettin’ wrecked - AGAIN!
I still don’t trust Saemon.  My answer of ‘no’ still stands, Saemon!
HULL: Kid, please?  Gorion got wrecked because he rushed in after Sarevok.  Let’s not do that!
Hull, explain.
HULL: Kid, I see history takin’ another lap.  If we rush in to fight this crazy mage with you in this weakened state, I don’t like the results.  
Hull, my answer is still no.  Respect that and let’s move on.
HULL: I’d say it but I don’t wanna jinx it.  I still don’t like your verdict here, kid.
Saemon, I’ve reconsidered.  Let’s sail away with you!
HULL: I’m -glad- ya listened to reason, kid!  <END DIALOG WITH HULL.  CONTINUE DIALOG WITH SAEMON AS IF THE PARTY INITIALLY SAID YES.>
Saemon, I’ve reconsidered.  Let’s sail away with you!
HULL: I’m -glad- ya listened to reason, kid!  <END DIALOG WITH HULL.  CONTINUE DIALOG WITH SAEMON AS IF THE PARTY INITIALLY SAID YES.>
Leaving Spellhold via Portal
<Append this to the dialog for exiting via the portal.>
HULL: Kid, are you really gonna just rush in after him?  It’s an admiral-sized trap!
Hull, I’m not worried.  We beat him once in Spellhold when he was well-prepared.  We can do it elsewhere!
HULL: Yeah, we made him flee, but he’s still alive and he still captured Imoen ‘n’ you TWICE!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, just think about how he wrecked Imoen by soul sucking her and how he turned YOU into that demon, or brought that demon odda you.
Hull, what would you do?
HULL: Kid, I know I’ve been a permissive parent.  But if you put me in charge, I’d consider our options.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: If rushing in after the crazy mage is the best way off this island and to get you fixed, we do it.  There’s probably a -much- better way here, kid!
Hull, I’m headed through that portal any moment now and I expect you to join me.  Come!
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, sometimes yer just like Gorion, rushin’ in to fight some major villain because you think you’ll win.  <END DIALOG WITH HULL.  PROCEED WITH PORTAL ENTRY.>
[If the party hasn’t already talked with Saemon Havarian about leaving with him] If we don’t head through the portal now, where do we go?
HULL: Kid, I think you already know that we pushed our luck with Irenicus here and won.  Let’s check around.  <END DIALOG WITH HULL AND PORTAL.>
[If the party has already talked with Saemon Havarian about leaving with him] What do you say about trying to find Saemon Havarian and leaving that way?
HULL: Kid, Saemon already mentioned having us sail away.  He’s a traitor, but a less dangerous traitor than that crazy mage Irenicus.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Let’s get you back to a safer place where Imoen and you get fixed and we just prepare along the way.  <END DIALOG WITH HULL AND PORTAL.>
Saemon Tasked Party with Stealing the Pirate Lord’s Horn
<If Hull is in the party and the party agreed to this task.>
HULL: Kid, I don’t like how we’re stealin’, but stealin’ from this Pirate King is small compared to the crazy mage stealin’ souls!
Hull, do you object enough to take the portal?
HULL: Not at all, kid.  I can tell our morality’s slippin, and I just found it awkward that our options here are ‘bad’ and ‘worse.’
Let’s just get going, Hull.
HULL: Alright, kid.  <END DIALOG.>
Party Got the Pirate Lord’s Horn
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: Let’s just get back to Saemon before someone asks us to steal someone’s pants.
Party’s Night Scene with Pirate Lord Desharik
<If Hull is in the party.>
DESHARIK: Your lackeys will not save you!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: We beat a soul sucking crazy mage on this very island!  You got a death wish?  We can make -that- come true!
Saemon’s Stolen Ship Boarded
<If Hull is in the party.>
SAEMON: All right, men, prepare yourselves to be boarded.  All weapons ready.  Don’t worry, <CHARNAME>, I’m sure this won’t be any trouble at all.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-- 
HULL: -We- hadda pay to sail here!  No free rides!
GITHYANKI CAPTAIN: Examples must be set!  None must tempt such a crime again!  Destroy them all!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Alright, kid!  Unleash your demon on these gith!  Give ‘em Hell!  <END DIALOG.>
BG2: CITY OF CAVERNS
Sahuagin City - Intro (Priestess)
ROYAL HIGH PRIESTESS SENITYILI: I am sure this most come as a shock to you after your recent harrowing experience.  You must brace yourselves, soft ones, for your journey gets no easier.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, what a fishy situation we’re in!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ROYAL HIGH PRIESTESS SENITYILI: This once, however, is different.  Sekolah has told of your coming in an ancient prophecy, and I have scried that you are whom the Shark-Father speaks of.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Wow!  I’m important enough to be prophesied about?  That’s news!  Tell me more!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
Sahuagin City - Intro (King)
KING IXILTHETOCAL: It seems most... most strange!  They have no scales!  Look how small and puny their teeth are!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull flexes his muscles toward the king.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But look how -big- my muscles are!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ROYAL HIGH PRIESTESS SENITYILI: I do not see what I wish to see, Tlyysixxous.  I only see what Sekolah has shown me, and these ARE the saviors of the City-of-Caverns!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: We’re gonna save your City of Caverns?  That’s gonna be an interesting acronym to tell people at parties!
KING IXILTHETOCAL: Your kind does not object to sorcery?  We have collected much that is magical during our raids.  You are welcome to it ALL, if you bring me his heart.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: This sounds like a -bad- idea, kid.  <Hull sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: When do we start?
Sahuagin City - Rebels are Good, King is Bad
ROYAL HIGH PRIESTESS SENITYILI: With the prince on the throne, we would be strong again... to fight the illithids and the drow.  I have been in contact with the rebels, and now is the time to strike!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: The king fish is crazy, kid.  Let’s listen to her.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
Sahuagin City - Spectator Beholder Talk
SPECTATOR: Visitors!  It has been some time since I have had anyone but the mad little sahuagin come to this place... and that one is not full of riveting conversation.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Wait!  You aren’t just trying to kill us?  Uh, OK.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: We can talk.  I think.  Yeah.  Let’s try -not- fighting for a change!
Sahuagin City - Spectator Beholder Talk
SPECTATOR: Visitors!  It has been some time since I have had 
SPECTATOR: Keep in mind that the drow who summoned me was mad.  But hey, who am I to judge, I suppose.  I have been playing tic-tac-toe with a pair of imps for sixty years.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And I thought -I- was bored crazy staring at walls for days at a time!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
Sahuagin City - Initial Meeting with Rebel Prince
PRINCE VILLYNATY: Hah!  I do not think the description has to be all that specific.  As if they would be anyone else, ugly as they are.  Their flesh, it is so soft and scaleless...
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And my muscles are bigger than yours!
Sahuagin City - Return to the King with the Fake Heart
KING IXILTHETOCAL: What?!  You... you have betrayed me, my <race>?!  This cannot be!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Betrayal?  We hardly knew you!
Sahuagin City - Party Interacts with Rope from Underdark
HULL: Kid, it seems like we’re -really- gonna head down under there after Irenicus.
Under where?
HULL: Made ya say it!
Worried, Hull?
HULL: Maybe, kid.  Irenicus turned you into a demon and made Imoen go hollow.  Now he seems like he’s trying to use your Bhaalspawn spirit to make himself a god!
Not yet.
HULL: But I know you, kid.  I know that we know we’re headed down there when yer ready.  <END DIALOG.>
Yes, Hull.
HULL: I know I can’t stop ya, kid.  Irenicus raped your soul, kid.  That’s the best way I can put it.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull sighs.>  But I’m with ya, kid.  I signed up for this to help ya, kid, even if it meant dealing with what just happened.  <END DIALOG WITH HULL AND START INTERACTION WITH ROPE.>
BG2: UNDERDARK
HULL: Well, kid, Irenicus could be anywhere!  I dunno yet if this is just a distraction or a big part of his plans.
Why do you say that?
HULL: Kid, the crazy mage is still a genius.  He said his plans could be done from anywhere.
Why do you think he went to the Underdark?
HULL: Because he’s a scheming bastard who probably allied himself with powerful Drow that -aren’t- named Drizzt!
[If Drizzt isn’t in the party like from Region of Terror] What would Drizzt do if he were here?
HULL: He’d probably gather his party, venture forth, sneak around, learn what he could, then get very violent very quickly and -kill- that damned crazy mage!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Then -after- he won, he’d get yet -another- buncha songs sung about his heroics!
Any exceptions?
HULL: Many dwarves like living ‘n’ working underground that -aren’t- evil, kid.  Maybe other stuff does too.
Any more theories about this place, Hull?
HULL: Kid, I got a feeling that most stuff that -wants- to live 
Any more theories about this place, Hull?
HULL: Kid, I got a feeling that most stuff that -wants- to live underground or out of sight of civilization is just -evil.-
OK.  Why?
HULL: Demons and evil things just -like- the dark, kid.  The further down we go, the closer we are to the masterminds.  They have the best stuff, but they’re -also- the biggest threats!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I dunno if being underground for so long makes people evil or evil just likes living or hiding underground.
Any exceptions?
HULL: Many dwarves like living ‘n’ working underground that -aren’t- evil, kid.  Maybe other stuff does too.
Wherever Irenicus is and whatever his plans are, let’s ruin him and them!
HULL: That’s the spirit!  <END DIALOG.>
Party Talks with Adalon the Silver Dragon (First Time)
<Play this line before the normal first line with Adalon, “Welcome, welcome to my lair.  I have watched your progress with great interest.”>
HULL: Wow!  A dragon!  Its scales are all shiny and it’s silver!  Kid, I think this dragon is trustworthy!
ADALON: I have been informed that to move from my lair is to cause the destruction of my eggs.  It is the final straw in a long list of atrocities I have been witness to.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, I’m all for helping this dragon here!  It sounds like something that Drizzt would do!
ADALON: It is done.  You now resemble the denizens of the drow city, complete with house insignia that will not draw undue attention.  I suggest you act like drow when speaking to anyone you meet.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Wait!  Does that mean I’m a slave?  I never asked for -this!-
Party Talks with Solaufein After Being Sent to Kill Him
SOLAUFEIN: The Spider Queen holds no sway over my heart.  I worship Lady Silverhair, Elistraee, and like her, I believe that my people have strayed from the path.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Well, -that’s- news!  You take after Drizzt in all the right ways!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SOLAUFEIN: Yes, I am familiar with that name, but let me speak.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SOLAUFEIN: I will remain in the shadows and seek out others like me.  There must be more...  I am sure of it.  Perhaps my people can be saved from themselves.
Leaving the Underdark
ELVEN WARRIOR: I speak the common tongue that you might hear and be warned!  All that breach the surface will be fought back!  Wait, you... you are no drow!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I never -was- a drow!
BG2: CHAPTER 6
Talking with Prelate Wessalen
PRELATE WESSALEN: When you go to the graveyard to face this creature, I shall send a group led by Sir William Reirrac to fight by your side.  They will meet you in the catacombs.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thank you, sir!  Reinforcements will arrive!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
Talking with Bodhi Outside the Crypt
BODHI: You are becoming an impressive pest, one that I am finding difficult to ignore!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Like a crying baby or an itchy crotch in an important public meeting.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BODHI: ...
Talking with Bodhi Inside the Crypt
BODHI: And so it shall end here.  Welcome.  You have been very resourceful in finding me, although I did not go out of my way to hide.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: As the saying goes, “All bad things must end!”
BODHI: You help those treacherous elves?!  They deserve all they receive, and more!  They will not even approach us while we destroy them, such is their arrogance!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: When everyone tries using you, eventually you realize you have a choice about who to disappoint.  Today is your day!
Drizzt Sends His Parting Message Inside the Crypt
Drizzt: So it ends.  The evil is slain.  You’ve done well, friend.  I bid you fair journey!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And thank you again, Drizzt!  It was an -honor- fighting beside you!
BG2: CHAPTER 7
Talking with Priestess Demin
PRIESTESS DEMIN: It is our folly if we think his terror would be isolated.  I apologize if he pained you, for we are partially to blame for each act of evil he continues to commit.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Alright!  What did y’all do to piss him off?
<After the conversation ends.>
HULL: Kid, and -that- is why you should always -kill- your enemies and mutilate the bodies!  It’s less trouble that way!
Talking with the Avatar of Rillafane
AVATAR OF RILLIFANE: ** THE EXILE SEEKS TO JOIN THE SELDARINE.  THE EXILE SEEKS TO BECOME A GOD, AS HE SOUGHT ONCE BEFORE. **
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: -FINALLY!-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Someone around here tells us straight what’s going on!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I might’ve acted the same way if I got close to being a god then someone stopped me!
Before the Tree of Life
<CHARNAME>: You turn and regard those who remain in your party.  You feel a need, perhaps, to ascertain their loyalty, their friendship, or to offer a chance to reconsider.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<CHARNAME>: You are reminded of how in Candlekeep, Hull always seemed to be a playful, irresponsible drunkard.  However, he has since traveled hundreds of miles to find you and help you fulfill your destiny, even doing his best to take the place of your beloved foster father Gorion.  He knew the truth about your heritage before most others did and still he chose to stay with you - and you let him.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Wondering what Gorion would do, kid?  I did.
Not at all, Hull.  I was actually wondering what -you- would do!
HULL: Hmm!  -That’s- different!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I would make sure we were fully prepared - potions, spells ‘n’ all - then taunt the crazy mage!  We kill him of course!
Hull, I must say I’m proud of how you’ve grown from an irresponsible drunkard in Candlekeep to my loyal bodyguard hundreds of miles from home.  Thanks!
HULL: Wow!  I’m not sure what to say!
Pick One 
Hull, can we be serious for a moment?
HULL: Sure, kid.  Let’s be serious.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I can tell you’re uncomfortable about what may come in the fight with Johnny Boy ahead.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But kid, I -know- you meant that as a compliment!  I’m -glad- you let me act as your Uncle Hull!  I’m not Gorion, but I think he would also be proud!
Such sarcasm, Hull!  Are you -sure- you belong here?
HULL: Sarcasm noted, kid.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But let’s be serious for a moment.  Crazy mage Johnny Boy raped your soul and now you’re wondering what’s next.  I’m here with ya, kid, ready to send him to Hell where he belongs!
What -would- Gorion do, Hull?
HULL:  Kid, he’d trust you to make the right choice.  Killing Johnny Boy is out of his league, kid, but it’s in -our- league!  And it’s our job to save the world, like in the tales!
Thanks, Hull.  I enjoyed that encouragement!
HULL: Sure, kid.
Such sarcasm, Hull!  Are you -sure- you belong here?
HULL: Sarcasm noted, kid.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But let’s be serious for a moment.  Crazy mage Johnny Boy raped your soul and now you’re wondering what’s next.  I’m here with ya, kid, ready to send him to Hell where he belongs!
Hull, I was reminded and impressed at how far I came.  I’m no longer merely the kid you kept calling me.  I’m about to fulfill my destiny!
HULL: <Hull smiles widely.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Well, kid or not, I’m so glad you’ve grown up so well!  It’s a -lot- to consider, I know.  It seems like a week ago we were in Candlekeep before Gorion escorted you out.
Hull, I was thinking about how Gorion thought I was worth dying for.  Maybe Irenicus saw that in a twisted way.
HULL: Well, when ya put it -that- way, kid...
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: It sounds like something -I- would say.  You -are- worth dying for.  Just don’t make -me- do it!
Scared, Hull?
HULL: Not for me, kid.  I already know what Johnny Boy can do.  He’s out of new tricks worth worrying about.
What makes you so confident about that?
HULL: All he wants is absolute power and he’ll use anything he wants to get it.  We know his plans.  He isn’t here to destroy the world or kill anyone in particular.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Besides, Imoen ‘n’ you got soul sucked and -survived!-  I don’t think he has any more major surprises.
I promise your death would be as painless as possible!
HULL: Kid, I know I joked a lot, but let’s not joke about -me- dying.  I don’t wanna jinx it!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: This place is alive and might grant me that if I hear it ‘n’ believe it enough!
I’m not much of a hugger.
HULL: Kid, I’m doin’ this for -me.-  I traveled hundreds of miles to find ya, kid.  It’s huggin’ time!
Hull, I was actually concerned about facing Irenicus again.
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, I know.  He turned you into that demon thing and now he’s trying to steal the soul of the elves to become a god.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I mean this in the best of ways, kid:  We’re in this together.  We’re here to turn this crazy mage into compost with no casualties on our side.
Hull, here’s your chance to bow out and save yourself.
HULL: Kid, I didn’t come this far just to chicken out.  Johnny Boy disgraced the family that is Candlekeep, and he’s about to be under arrest by being killed then buried underground!
Hull, I realized we’re about to face Irenicus.  I’m ready when you are!
HULL: <Hull opens his arms wide as if to offer a hug.>
Alright, Uncle Hull.  Time for a hug.
HULL: Thanks, kid.  I needed that.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Now let’s give him the death penalty for soul theft!  <END DIALOG WITH HULL.  CONTINUE DIALOG WITH OTHERS IN PARTY AS PRUDENT.>
I’m not much of a hugger.
HULL: Kid, I’m doin’ this for -me.-  I traveled hundreds of miles to find ya, kid.  It’s huggin’ time!
Just don’t embarrass me, Hull.
HULL: No promises, kid.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Now let’s give him the death penalty for soul theft!  <END DIALOG WITH HULL.  CONTINUE DIALOG WITH OTHERS IN PARTY AS PRUDENT.>
I’ll do it for you, Hull.
HULL: -That’s- the spirit!  
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Now let’s give him the death penalty for soul theft!  <END DIALOG WITH HULL.  CONTINUE DIALOG WITH OTHERS IN PARTY AS PRUDENT.>
Tree of Life - Irenicus Dialog
IRENICUS: Your soul still courses through me.  Come and make your attempt to reclaim it, if you like.  I have power enough to deal with you!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Drizzt is in the party.>
DRIZZT: Irenicus, you scoundrel!  The tormentous horrors you inflicted on others shall fall upon you this day!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Volo is in the party.>
VOLO: Irenicus!  You have ascended to such heights only to be brought the lowest you have ever been!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IRENICUS: Your words are empty, Bard.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Baeloth is in the party.>
BAELOTH: Fresh air?  Bird song?  Wind whistling through the branches?  I despise it all! (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IRENICUS: <Irenicus barely flinches at Baeloth’s words.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Get out!  Get out!  GET OUT OF MY SIGHT BEFORE I BURN YOUR EYES FROM THEIR SOCKETS! (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IRENICUS: Enough!  I haven’t the time for this!  Your magics are useless! (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party.>
<CHARNAME>: You feel an urge to point to Hull.  He’s been eagerly checking in your direction during the conversation.  You suspect he would go through with his plan anyway.
*Don’t point to Hull.*
HULL: Kid, I just GOTTA do this!
<Continue as if the player had chosen to point to Hull.>
*Point to Hull.*
HULL: Joneleth Irenicus!  It’s a beautiful day outside!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: The birds are singing.  The flowers are blooming.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And it’s on days like these that exiles like you...
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: ...should be BURNING IN HELL!
Tree of Life - Irenicus Post-Fight Dialog
IRENICUS: Th-this is not...  This... is not...
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Drizzt is in the party.>
DRIZZT: Righteousness prevails!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Volo is in the party.>
VOLO: You’re on the wrong side of history!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Baeloth is in the party.>
BAELOTH: Ooh!  That felt good! (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: See you in Hell, you son of a bitch!
Entered Hell
<CHARNAME>: You doubt they will be pleased with their present circumstances when you don’t even know why you are here yourself.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: What foul trickery is this?!  I had not imagined that exile to be so powerful to drag us to death with him!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: My friend, I... underestimated this archmage’s power!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: No! NO! NO, NO, NO! Don't LEAVE me here, you moronic miscreant! Don't let me die at the hands of pale-skinned barbarians! (from here)
Irenicus got you too, I see.
BAELOTH: Confound it! (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: -Clearly- we won, but -someone- or -something- thought a rematch was in order!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: I never asked for this!
You -did- seem to ignore your fellow drow in the Underdark when Irenicus enlisted their aid.
BAELOTH: Excuses, excuses.
Let’s finish this fight.
BAELOTH: <Baeloth sighs.>  (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull releases a long, painful sigh.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I shouldn’t’ve said it!  I shouldn’t’ve said it!
What should you have not said, Hull?
HULL: Someone or -something- heard me taunt Irenicus with, “See you in Hell!”  Here we are!
It might just be a coincidence.
HULL: Yeah, and you -might- just be the child of a murder god.  We should know better by now.
Whatever happened, we’re here.  Let’s just move on.
HULL: Find the nearest portal out.  It’s -gotta- lead us to a better place!  <END DIALOG WITH HULL.>
Hell - Wraith Sarevok
WRAITH SAREVOK: It is I.  Or an echo perhaps.  My essence joined that of our dead father after you murdered me, after all...  but in the end, all the children of Bhaal end up here.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Sarevok!  Does that mean you’re -truly- dead now?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Surely the strong Sarevok didn’t succumb so suddenly!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
WRAITH SAREVOK: So think of me!  Think of how I destroyed your precious Gorion!  How I plundered the lives of your Candlekeep!  Summon your rage, stir the depths of your black heart!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Can I kill him again yet to make him -shut up?-
Hell - Wraith Sarevok Killed
BAELOTH: Is this place overflowing with opponents we once overcame?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Good!  At least he should be really, -truly- dead!
Hell - Selfishness Trial
SELFISHNESS: Remember, Child of Bhaal... a choice must be made, and you must live with the consequences of that choice.  Go to my left and sacrifice for the innocent.  Go to my right and save yourself.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is chosen as prisoner.>
HULL: Uh, kid, I -might- be able to warp odda here or run =really- fast if I’m hasted enough!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I’m too good of a friend to die like this!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Drizzt is chosen as prisoner.>
DRIZZT: <CHARNAME>, I am sorry it has come to this.  Know that you have helped me in fulfilling my destiny, and I have helped you in yours.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Volo is chosen as prisoner.>
VOLO: My friend, now is not a time to let me die!  The realms and the planes should know of your exploits here from the one and only Volothamp Geddarm!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Besides, it would be embarrassing!
<If Baeloth is chosen as prisoner.>
BAELOTH: Can’t you just Maze yourself and trick this damnable chamber into letting us out without a sacrifice?!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party and another is chosen as prisoner.>
HULL: Uh, kid, I’m sorry for whoever got taken.  Maybe we can warp ‘em odda there or have ‘em use a haste potion ‘n’ run out!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Drizzt is in the party and another is chosen as prisoner.>
DRIZZT: We shall do what we can to get you out!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Volo is in the party and another is chosen as prisoner.>
VOLO: Can’t you warp out or be Hasted and escape the trap?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Baeloth is in the party and another is chosen as prisoner.>
BAELOTH: Oh, I suppose we’ll need a replacement. (from here)
Hell - Before Opening the Top Center Door
DRIZZT: Our captor is nigh!  Let us be prepared and end this charade this day!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Irenicus is likely beyond that... thing that can generously be called a door.  We had better be ready, my friend!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Gather in the galley, my gallants!  ‘Tis time for another test ‘twixt two titanic terrors in Baeloth’s blackest pit yet! (from here)
We’re probably about to fight an archmage in Hell and all you can think about is turning this into your Black Pits?
BAELOTH: Yes, I know. (from here)
Whatever, Baeloth.  Let’s just be prepared for Irenicus.
BAELOTH: I’m here, and I hear. (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, I -think- this is it.  The final confrontation!  The spectacular showdown!  The event under the Big Top!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Make any last preparations with spells, potions, and whatever else before we kill Irenicus - again!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And after we do that, let’s do research on how to ensure that major villains we kill STAY FUCKING DEAD!
Touche, Hull.
HULL: We know I’m right, kid.
Gimme a moment to make some final preparations.
HULL: Better safe than sorry.  Irenicus waits for us.  Again.  <END DIALOG.>
Hull, our moment of glory has arrived!  For Candlekeep, Imoen, Gorion, and everyone and everything we hold dear, let’s END Irenicus ONCE and for ALL!
HULL: <Hull smiles and tears of joy fall down his face.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You make me SO PROUD, kid!  Gorion would be proud, too!
<END DIALOG WITH HULL.  CONTINUE DIALOG WITH OTHER PARTY MEMBERS AS PRUDENT.>
Hell - After Opening the Top Center Door
NOTE: This set of lines plays before the Irenicus fight, regardless of dialogs.  Each party member normally has a separate line for, “This is it.”
IRENICUS: You will not be so calm when I doom you to non-existence!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: Your vile ways have doomed you to an eternity in Hell, Irenicus!  We are here to seal your fate!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: You lose, Irenicus!  Second verse, same as the first!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You crazy, broken mage!  Don’t you get it?  We CAN’T die!  If even SAREVOK came back after ‘death,’ WE WILL TOO!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: No.  No escape.  No more tricks.  No more performances.  No more last-minute victories.  Your lives -end here.-  But at least your wish will be granted.  I will -personally- face you in combat. (from here)
Hell - Irenicus Slain
HULL: In the heart of Hell, I SMITE THEE!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Your antics grew stale long ago. (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: Our duty here is fulfilled!  Righteousness wins this day!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: And so our heroes defeated the evil archmage Irenicus!  There was much rejoicing!
SoA: ENDING
Ellesime Resurrects Party
ELLESIME: Dead?  A couple of days, no more.  However you managed to find your way back, is it good that you have done so.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: A hero’s welcome is always welcome!  Thank you, everyone!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: We’ve been through Hell and back!  I think we’re ready for a break!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: My lady, it has been a pleasure serving you!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: <Volo bows dramatically.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: We do wonderful work!  I’m impressed! (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELLESIME: These deeds were not performed alone...  Suldanessellar also extends its gratitude to those who have traveled with you and fought by your side to help save our city.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Such a dramatic turn of events! (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: I suppose reparations are in order.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: Your tokens of gratitude are appreciated, my lady.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Yes!  Thank you, everyone!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And just so you know, Hell is still Hell and as bad as it seems!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: And so our heroes received a well-deserved rest!
SoA: STRONGHOLD REACTIONS
These dialogs only trigger once - the first time Hull is in the party with <CHARNAME> - when the party is on the map and <CHARNAME> owns that area as a stronghold.
Bard Stronghold (Five Flagons Playhouse)
HULL: All that work just to call a bar home?  Well, at least you can get some rich kids drunk ‘n’ make ‘em watch high brow entertainment for profit!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull bows playfully.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Gorion may even be proud!
Gorion had -better- be proud after all that went into getting this place!
HULL: <Hull chuckles.>  I hope Winthrop taught ya well, kid, about how to keep customers happy.
What do you mean, Hull?
HULL: We got discounts on drinks for listening to Winthrop tell his same old exaggerated stories again and again and sometimes fake interest.
I’m sorry Winthrop treated you that way, Hull.
HULL: Well, kid, his inn -was- the only one in Candlekeep.  The guards wore it out -years- ago!
I plan to be more entertaining.  Trust me!
HULL: Good, kid!  Good!
Now that this place is mine, it’s time to do some decorating!
HULL: Where can I put my kegs?
Anywhere they’ll fit, Hull.  <wink>
HULL: Now I just gotta find best place to put ‘em for easy access!
Any property you leave here becomes mine, Hull.  <wink>
HULL: And any property you leave around here, I can use too, kid!
And what will you pay me as a storage fee?
HULL: I’ll continue to guard you when our lives are in danger.  Deal?
Lemme consider it.
HULL: Definitely maybe then!
I only take cash, Hull, or useful magic items.
HULL: Then take it out of my share of the treasure!
No deal, Hull.
HULL: We can work out somethin’ later, kid.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Just remember, I got some -special- brew.  Extra strong.  For all those boring, lonely nights.
How does this place compare to Candlekeep?
HULL: Winthrop’s bar will always hold a special place in my heart, kid.  I still like that this place feels familiar, yet new.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But at least we have more freedom here than in Candlekeep!  Kid, we’ve seen the in ‘n’ out of Candlekeep for -years- now.  I was gettin’ mighty tired of that place.  I think you were too.
Would you want to live here, Hull?
HULL: I’ve ‘lived’ at Winthrop’s bar enough, kid.  This is the sorta place I wanted to leave when I left Candlekeep.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Like it if you want, kid.  It’s still yours.
Want to buy this place off me, Hull?
HULL: Maybe one day, kid.  The adventuring life still calls to us now.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Remember, we’re friends.  I can already stay here for free!  So, no!
Thanks, Hull, but let’s just move on.
HULL: Just tryin’ to tell ya that you’ve done well, kid, and the world sees you’re movin’ up in life!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull playfully bows.>
Cleric Stronghold (Temple)
HULL: This temple’s yours, huh?  This place is more splendid than Candlekeep!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Gorion would be proud!
Gorion had -better- be proud after all that went into getting this place!
HULL: <Hull chuckles.>  I see your point, kid.
Now that this place is mine, it’s time to do some decorating!
HULL: Where can I put my kegs?
Anywhere they’ll fit, Hull.  <wink>
HULL: Now I just gotta find best place to put ‘em for easy access!
Any property you leave here becomes mine, Hull.  <wink>
HULL: And any property you leave around here, I can use too, kid!
And what will you pay me as a storage fee?
HULL: I’ll continue to guard you when our lives are in danger.  Deal?
Lemme consider it.
HULL: Definitely maybe then!
I only take cash, Hull, or useful magic items.
HULL: Then take it out of my share of the treasure!
No deal, Hull.
HULL: We can work out somethin’ later, kid.
How does this place compare to Candlekeep?
HULL: It’s newer, meaning it’s better.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, we’ve seen the in ‘n’ out of Candlekeep for -years- now.  I was gettin’ mighty tired of that place.  I think you were too.
Would you want to live here, Hull?
HULL: If I had a buncha servants who treated me like royalty, then yeah!  If you mean without the servants, maybe.  It’s still impressive!
Want to buy this place off me, Hull?
HULL: We’re friends.  I can already stay here for free!  So, no!
Thanks, Hull, but let’s just move on.
HULL: Just tryin’ to tell ya that you’ve done well, kid, and the world sees you’re movin’ up in life!
Druid Stronghold (Druidic Grove)
HULL: So, you beat the lead druid and got a new forest home?  Well, it fits you, that’s for sure!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Gorion would be proud!
Gorion had -better- be proud after all that went into getting this place!
HULL: <Hull chuckles.>  I see your point, kid.
Now that this place is mine, it’s time to do some decorating!
HULL: Where can I put my kegs?
Anywhere they’ll fit, Hull.  <wink>
HULL: Now I just gotta find best place to put ‘em for easy access!
Any property you leave here becomes mine, Hull.  <wink>
HULL: And any property you leave around here, I can use too, kid!
And what will you pay me as a storage fee?
HULL: I’ll continue to guard you when our lives are in danger.  Deal?
Lemme consider it.
HULL: Definitely maybe then!
I only take cash, Hull, or useful magic items.
HULL: Then take it out of my share of the treasure!
No deal, Hull.
HULL: We can work out somethin’ later, kid.
How does this place compare to Candlekeep?
HULL: Maybe this place is special to ya, kid, but to me, it’s a garden for me to walk through on my way to war.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But at least we have more freedom here than in Candlekeep!  Kid, we’ve seen the in ‘n’ out of Candlekeep for -years- now.  I was gettin’ mighty tired of that place.  I think you were too.
Would you want to live here, Hull?
HULL: I’ve camped enough outside with ya, kid.  I’d rather sleep in comfort -inside-, like in a palace!
Want to buy this place off me, Hull?
HULL: I didn’t think druids sold land.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Remember, we’re friends.  I can already stay here for free!  So, no!
Thanks, Hull, but let’s just move on.
HULL: Enjoy your garden home!
Fighter, Monk, and Blackguard Stronghold (de’Arnise Keep)
HULL: This castle’s yours to keep!  It’s even about the size of Candlekeep but with fewer books.  Gorion would be proud!
Gorion had -better- be proud after all that went into getting this place!
HULL: <Hull chuckles.>  I see your point, kid.
And they said we’d never be royals.  Hah!
HULL: <Hull chuckles.>
Now that this place is mine, it’s time to do some decorating!
HULL: Where can I put my kegs?
Anywhere they’ll fit, Hull.  <wink>
HULL: Now I just gotta find best place to put ‘em for easy access!
Any property you leave here becomes mine, Hull.  <wink>
HULL: And any property you leave around here, I can use too, kid!
And what will you pay me as a storage fee?
HULL: I’ll continue to guard you when our lives are in danger.  Deal?
Lemme consider it.
HULL: Definitely maybe then!
I only take cash, Hull, or useful magic items.
HULL: Then take it out of my share of the treasure!
No deal, Hull.
HULL: We can work out somethin’ later, kid.
How does this place compare to Candlekeep?
HULL: I dunno, kid.  Candlekeep is, well, a keep.  So is this place!  How convenient!  At least this place is different!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, we’ve seen the in ‘n’ out of Candlekeep for -years- now.  I was gettin’ mighty tired of that place.  I think you were too.
Would you want to live here, Hull?
HULL: Call me Hull, Lord of the Sword Coast!  Fetch me my sword, my keg of ale, and my other keg to cure the hangovers!
I’ll take that as a ‘yes.’
HULL: Take that as a ‘very yes!’  If ever you get tired of running this place, I might wanna take over!
Want to buy this place off me, Hull?
HULL: We’re friends.  I can already stay here for free!  So, no!
Thanks, Hull, but let’s just move on.
HULL: Well done with the palace, my royal highness!
Paladin Stronghold (Paladin Order Headquarter)
HULL: Wow, kid!  You really made it as a knight in shining armor!  I’m honored to be your friend and your knight in this, your -paladin order headquarter!-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Gorion would be proud!
Gorion had -better- be proud after all that went into getting this place!
HULL: Not everyone could slay a dragon to get a stronghold!
Now that this place is mine, it’s time to do some decorating!
HULL: Where can I put my kegs?
If you can find room in the kitchen, it’s a deal.
HULL: Deal!
Anywhere they’ll fit, Hull.  <wink>
HULL: Now I just gotta find best place to put ‘em for easy access!
Any property you leave here becomes mine, Hull.  <wink>
HULL: And any property you leave around here, I can use too, kid!
And what will you pay me as a storage fee?
HULL: I’ll continue to guard you when our lives are in danger.  Deal?
Lemme consider it.
HULL: Definitely maybe then!
I only take cash, Hull, or useful magic items.
HULL: Then take it out of my share of the treasure!
No deal, Hull.
HULL: We can work out somethin’ later, kid.
How does this place compare to Candlekeep?
HULL: This hall is a place where everything is just expected to go -right.-  Sure, there’s -always- politics, but I don’t think doppelgangers are gonna come in ‘n’ take over!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, we’ve seen the in ‘n’ out of Candlekeep for -years- now.  I was gettin’ mighty tired of that place.  I think you were too.
Would you want to live here, Hull?
HULL: Oh, yeah!  This place has such a righteous order it makes me wish I grew up as a paladin!
Want to buy this place off me, Hull?
HULL: Absolutely!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But I wouldn’t feel right taking it from ya, kid.  You earned it, kid.  Treat it well.
Thanks, Hull, but let’s just move on.
HULL: Alright, kid.  Enjoy your shiny new stronghold!
Ranger Stronghold (Forest Cabin)
HULL: Kid, when I thought you were getting a stronghold, I imagined something... bigger, like a forest fort.  Not... this dinky cabin.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Maybe Gorion would be proud of you kid.
Are you insulting my new stronghold?
HULL: <Hull chuckles.>  Yeah, kid.  It’s a house, but not really a stronghold, unless you plan to stay in here and shoot at everything outside that moves.
That might be a good idea.
HULL: <Hull shrugs.>
Shut up, Hull.
HULL: I’m just sayin’ you got cheated in the stronghold department, kid.  Shoulda been a wizard ‘n’ magicked up a tower.
Gorion had -better- be proud after all that went into getting this place!
HULL: <Hull laughs.>
I’m glad you enjoyed that, Hull.  Let’s move on.
HULL: <Hull smiles and nods.>
What’s so funny?
HULL: Maybe Gorion would be proud of you kid - to your face.  Then in private he’d go shake his head and snicker.  <Hull laughs.>
Now that this place is mine, it’s time to do some decorating!
HULL: Where can I put my kegs?
Anywhere they’ll fit, Hull.  <wink>
HULL: Now I just gotta find best place to put ‘em for easy access!
Any property you leave here becomes mine, Hull.  <wink>
HULL: And any property you leave around here, I can use too, kid!
And what will you pay me as a storage fee?
HULL: I’ll continue to guard you when our lives are in danger.  Deal?
Lemme consider it.
HULL: Definitely maybe then!
I only take cash, Hull, or useful magic items.
HULL: Then take it out of my share of the treasure!
No deal, Hull.
HULL: We can work out somethin’ later, kid.
How does this place compare to Candlekeep?
HULL: Candlekeep was far, -far- better.  It was a cage, kid, but a rich one.  At least this cabin’s new to us, kid.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, we’ve seen the in ‘n’ out of Candlekeep for -years- now.  I was gettin’ mighty tired of that place.  I think you were too.
Would you want to live here, Hull?
HULL: <Hull shrugs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: This place might be a quiet place to write a book, but it just -looks- like a murder scene before it happened!
Please stop insulting my home!
HULL: You asked for it, kid.
I see your point.
HULL: And I raise you double!
Want to buy this place off me, Hull?
HULL: We’re friends.  I can already stay here for free!  So, no!
Thanks, Hull, but let’s just move on.
HULL: I’m glad you got this new house, kid.  It means more to you than me.  I hope you know by now that I meant what I said.
Shaman Stronghold (Druidic Grove): Will of the Wisps Mod
HULL: This naturey place is yours, kid.  A stronghold.  I’m not sure what to say, kid, but I’m pretty sure Gorion would be proud.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
Gorion had -better- be proud after all that went into getting this place!
HULL: <Hull chuckles.>  I see your point, kid.
Now that this place is mine, it’s time to do some decorating!
HULL: Where can I put my kegs?
Anywhere they’ll fit, Hull.  <wink>
HULL: Now I just gotta find best place to put ‘em for easy access!
Any property you leave here becomes mine, Hull.  <wink>
HULL: And any property you leave around here, I can use too, kid!
And what will you pay me as a storage fee?
HULL: I’ll continue to guard you when our lives are in danger.  Deal?
Lemme consider it.
HULL: Definitely maybe then!
I only take cash, Hull, or useful magic items.
HULL: Then take it out of my share of the treasure!
No deal, Hull.
HULL: We can work out somethin’ later, kid.
How does this place compare to Candlekeep?
HULL: We’ve traveled together lots, kid, but I still prefer the comforts of civilization, like libraries, comfy beds, and ale on tap!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But at least we have more freedom here than in Candlekeep!  Kid, we’ve seen the in ‘n’ out of Candlekeep for -years- now.  I was gettin’ mighty tired of that place.  I think you were too.
Would you want to live here, Hull?
HULL: No, kid.  This place reminds me too much of trash land.  Too muddy and boggy.  I like paved streets and comfy castles instead.
Want to buy this place off me, Hull?
HULL: I’m not the right buyer for this place, kid.  Find a better nature lover.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Remember, we’re friends.  I can already stay here for free!  So, no!
Thanks, Hull, but let’s just move on.
HULL: Alright, kid.  I’m glad you own more real estate.  This place just ain’t my style.
Sorcerer & Wizard Stronghold (Planar Sphere)
HULL: Wow, kid!  This magic ball’s your new home!  It may be the first of its kind, or maybe the eighth!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Gorion would be proud!
Gorion had -better- be proud after all that went into getting this place!
HULL: <Hull chuckles.>  I see your point, kid.
My enemies shall FEAR my SPHERE!
HULL: <Hull chuckles.>
Now that this place is mine, it’s time to do some decorating!
HULL: Where can I put my kegs?
Just keep them away from the controls to this sphere.  I don’t want any accidents.
HULL: Gotchya.
Anywhere they’ll fit, Hull.  <wink>
HULL: Now I just gotta find best place to put ‘em for easy access!
Any property you leave here becomes mine, Hull.  <wink>
HULL: And any property you leave around here, I can use too, kid!
And what will you pay me as a storage fee?
HULL: I’ll continue to guard you when our lives are in danger.  Deal?
Lemme consider it.
HULL: Definitely maybe then!
I only take cash, Hull, or useful magic items.
HULL: Then take it out of my share of the treasure!
No deal, Hull.
HULL: We can work out somethin’ later, kid.
How does this place compare to Candlekeep?
HULL: This sphere is AWESOME!  Most mages get towers.  You got a ball!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, we’ve seen the in ‘n’ out of Candlekeep for -years- now.  I was gettin’ mighty tired of that place.  I think you were too.
Would you want to live here, Hull?
HULL: Yeah!  Even more so if we can roll it over our enemies!
Want to buy this place off me, Hull?
HULL: We’re friends.  I can already stay here for free!  So, no!
Thanks, Hull, but let’s just move on.
HULL: Kid, you lucked out -so hard!-  Even Elminster might be jealous of this place!
Thief Stronghold (Thief Guildhall)
HULL: Well, kid, I think this makes you the new crime boss in these parts.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Maybe Gorion would be proud!
Gorion had -better- be proud after all that went into getting this place!
HULL: No comment, kid.
HULL: I was trained to -stop- crime, -not- make more of it!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But I know it’s yours, kid.  I’m tryin’ to be happy for ya.
<IF IMOEN IS IN THE PARTY: NEXT DIALOG BOX>
IMOEN: <CHARNAME>, I’ll take this guildhall if you don’t want it!
I see your point.
HULL: Taken like a sword.
Now that this place is mine, it’s time to do some decorating!
HULL: Where can I put my kegs?
Wherever we can use ‘em to stuff bodies inside or otherwise hide ‘evidence.’
HULL: <Hull looks suspiciously at you.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I’ll just take that as a joke.
Anywhere they’ll fit, Hull.  <wink>
HULL: Now I just gotta find best place to put ‘em for easy access!
Any property you leave here becomes mine, Hull.  <wink>
HULL: And any property you leave around here, I can use too, kid!
And what will you pay me as a storage fee?
HULL: I’ll continue to guard you when our lives are in danger.  Deal?
Lemme consider it.
HULL: Definitely maybe then!
I only take cash, Hull, or useful magic items.
HULL: Then take it out of my share of the treasure!
No deal, Hull.
HULL: We can work out somethin’ later, kid.
How does this place compare to Candlekeep?
HULL: Candlekeep stopped crime.  This place starts it.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, we’ve seen the in ‘n’ out of Candlekeep for -years- now.  I was gettin’ mighty tired of that place.  I think you were too.
Would you want to live here, Hull?
HULL: Not for long, kid.  I like a good reputation.
Want to buy this place off me, Hull?
HULL: Too much risk of legal trouble or crime wars.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Remember, we’re friends.  I can already stay here for free!  So, no!
Thanks, Hull, but let’s just move on.
HULL: Alright, kid.  Enjoy being a crime boss.
ToB: CHAPTER 8
Forest of Tethyr - ToB Intro
FOREST SPIRIT: ...
The one foreseen, the one foretold.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: It didn’t rhyme?  Huh!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
FOREST SPIRIT: ...
A god that hath been may be once again.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Alright!  Who’s breathing into this thing?
Illasera Pre-Fight (Baeloth/Hull/Volo)
ILLASERA: 
ILLASERA: Not all of us have been wandering Faerun like witless cattle, like you and pathetic Imoen and so many others of Bhaal's blood.  Some of us have far greater aspirations.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Eh?  What do YOU want? (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ILLASERA: The time of Alaundo’s prophecy has come, <CHARNAME>.  These rhyming ghosts, here, should have told you that much.  Great things are afoot... and your contribution will be your death.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Is there REALLY no one else you can bother? (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: I... won’t dignify that with a dramatic response.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You -seriously- overestimate yourself, girl!  You’re outmatched by -us- who just destroyed an -archmage- in -Hell!-
Illasera Post-Fight (party must be out of combat)
<If Baeloth is in the party.>
BAELOTH: I know you’re dead, but what am I?
You’re alive, Baeloth.  That’s good enough for me.
BAELOTH: Bah.  You’re no fun.  Surely you can muster some mouth muscle to mock others’ malaise!
What, no long alliterative rant about how superior you are, or how we’re all better off fighting or somesuch?
BAELOTH: I already uttered my utmost mockery for Illasera, but since you insist...
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Prepare for a proper pugilistic pummeling of proud and powerful prudes.
Baeloth, what do you say to this Bhaalspawn situation?
BAELOTH: Batter them into bloody rubbish! (from AoN: Baeloth sound set)
Nothing else?
BAELOTH: You obviously overestimate the extent of this situation.  These Bhaalish assassins are after your blood.  Impale them, ingest or ignite their innards, and be on with it!
That’s all for now, Baeloth.
BAELOTH: So be it. (from here)
<END DIALOG WITH BAELOTH.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: I’ll tell ya one thing, kid.  That gal had -balls!-
Do I want to know what you meant by that?
HULL: <Hull laughs.>
Alright, Hull.  What -did- you mean by that?
HULL: Illasera was -bold- to take us on here, kid.  She didn’t seem to care that we bested the archmage Irenicus in Hell!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Then again, she mentioned the rhyming ghosts around here when I said they -didn’t- rhyme!  She was bold, but not very bright.
What was this about Alaundo’s prophecy?
HULL: Alaundo wrote a buncha prophecies, kid.  I only know of one that pertains to our present situation.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: The Lord of Murder shall perish, but in his doom he shall spawn a score of mortal progeny.  Chaos will be sewn from their passage.  So sayeth the wise Alaundo.
Thanks, Hull.
HULL: I’m glad you didn’t boo me out of the forest!
How did you recite that so quickly?
HULL: It’s called the Endless Chant for good reason!  You try hearing that again and again for what seemed like -years.-
What’s next, Hull?
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, Illasera mentioning Alaundo’s prophecy means a -lot- of stuff.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: First, Gorion -knew- your heritage, and I think Elminster did too.  I heard they were pen pals.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: It -also- meant that Gorion thought you’d need help to prepare for the coming bloodbath.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Sarevok’s war with Amn never happened, kid.  He never revived the Lord of Murder.  I’m glad!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But it seems like a -lot- of other Bhaalspawn felt the urge to continue where he left off.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, it means our job here isn’t done.  I’m still gonna be the best stand-in for Candlekeep and Gorion I can, but I’m no Bhaalspawn, kid.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I don’t know if this means embracing your heritage and just killing your way to godhood, or if it means you gotta stop others from doing the same, but I know it -doesn’t- mean a peaceful, relaxing time on a beach in Calimport with some magically chilled drinks in hand.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull sighs as tears fall down Hull’s face.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And I was -so- ready for a break.
Hull, the next convenient chance we get, I can get you some drinks.
HULL: <Hull smiles widely.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thanks, kid.  I plan to need more than just drinks.  I plan to take some time off to write some letters to Tethtoril and Candlekeep and let ‘em know what’s been happening.  That or we see him in person if we can spare the time.
Why did you feel so burdened about all this Bhaalspawn stuff, Hull?  They’re after -me- and not -you-, just like in Candlekeep!
HULL: Kid, history’s repeating itself.  This time, I’m unsure how much I can help.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Just like with Gorion, kid, when you became an adult, Gorion couldn’t treat you like a kid anymore.  He couldn’t do everything for you like he once did.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, I just felt overwhelmed at what happened.  We’ve gone from a humble, shut-in, scholarly life in Candlekeep to world-sized stakes!  Maybe even the fate of all reality is at risk!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: We went from triumphing over a now-slain god-in-the-making crazy mage Irenicus to learning that our world just got a -lot- bigger and the threats -also- got a lot bigger to match!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid...
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull sighs, clearly confused, overwhelmed, and uncomfortable.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I dunno how much I can help you anymore.  This is god-level stuff, and I got a feeling it’s only gonna get harder from here.
<Pick one.>
Afraid of needing to sacrifice yourself for me like Gorion did?
HULL: A little bit, kid, but I’m open to resurrection.
Hull, you trusted -me- to bring you your sword all that time ago to save you from embarrassment and shame.  I’m -not- about to just abandon you!
HULL: <Hull sighs, relieved.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, that means a -lot- of good stuff to me!  Thanks!
Remember, Hull, -you- wanted to be my bodyguard.
HULL: Yeah, and I’m a better man for it.  Time to finish the job!
What about our rest break in the elven city after beating Irenicus?
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, that wasn’t a break.  That felt like -nothing- after all we’ve been through.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I’m glad you seem to be takin’ this so well, kid, but the next good chance we get, kid, I’m takin’ some time off from the group.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, I...
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I want to tell Candlekeep what’s going on.  Tethtoril should know.  He sent me here, and just in case the world ends with the birth of a new Lord of Murder, I want our home to be ready for it.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I’m not sure how they’d -prepare- for the end of the world, but they probably have -something- for this occasion in all of their books!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Besides, they can tell Elminster.  He probably already knows, but I’d feel better just giving Candlekeep a mail call or a magic message from me.  Seems like the right thing to do, now that we’re in this divine army.
Do you expect Elminster to just warp in and save the day?
HULL: <Hull shrugs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: He -could!-  He’s Elminster!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But we know that isn’t the ending Gorion raised you to live through, kid.
Would Candlekeep send help?  If so, what?
HULL: Kid, I don’t think Candlekeep -can- send any help worth using!  We’re dealing with high-powered godspawn here!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Even that asshole Ulraunt in charge of Candlekeep who had you framed for murdering Daddy Sarevok couldn’t or wouldn’t help much now.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But maybe they have some information worth using.
C’mon, Hull!  Let’s go!  We have a date with destiny!
HULL: Do I know her?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull smiles.>
<Pick one.>
Yeah, and she’s an ugly, murderous -bitch- like Illasera was!
HULL: Then let’s go, kid, and do unto her before she does unto us!  <END DIALOG WITH HULL.>
No, but we’re about to find out!
HULL: Just imagine she’s the ugliest, nastiest girl you’ve ever met and due for a mind control and thorough beating!  <END DIALOG WITH HULL.>
-That’s- the happy Hull I know!
HULL: Yeah, kid!  Let’s go!  <END DIALOG WITH HULL.>
Hull, that’s so corny.
HULL: That just proves I’m cheered up and ready to go!  <END DIALOG WITH HULL.>
Saradush - After Initial Dialog with Melissan
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Seems I’ve done a lot of -sighing- lately, kid.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I heard we’re stuck here until we end this siege.  Maybe we’ll kill this mad overlord along the way.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I’d rather have allies than enemies, but death’s found its way to ya, kid, like flies to a corpse!
Tankard Tree - Dialog with Volo with Hull in the Party
VOLO: Come, now... surely you know that wherever history is being made I, Volo, will be there to chronicle events.  You don’t become the most famous historian on Faerun without finding yourself in the thick of things!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Wow!  It’s Volo!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, I read Volo’s Guide to the Sword Coast!  Some of his inn prices didn’t account for discounts, but he’s -totally- trustworthy!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: <Volo smiles and winks at Hull.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thanks, Volo, for making my long, boring shifts guarding Candlekeep a bit better by reading about the rest of the world!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: <Volo smiles enthusiastically at Hull and nods.>
[If Volo wasn’t in the party in BG1] Hey, Volo!  Care to join me and see how this story ends?
VOLO: Why, of course!  You certainly have been an interesting figure to write about!  This siege has been disruptive to my concentration, anyway.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Before we head out, let me change my clothes.  I don’t want to dirty my favorite leisure outfit!
<End dialog.  Volo changes his clothes into a typical Bard outfit (blue major, white minor) and joins the party!>
[If Volo was in the party in BG1] Hey, Volo!  Wanna join me again and see how this story ends?
VOLO: Why, of course!  You certainly have been an interesting figure to write about!  This siege has been disruptive to my concentration, anyway.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Before we head out, let me change my clothes.  I don’t want to dirty my favorite leisure outfit!
<End dialog.  Volo changes his clothes into a typical Bard outfit (blue major, white minor) and joins the party!>
Tankard Tree - Volo’s Description of Baeloth
VOLO: “Baeloth the Entertainer” is the title the drow known as Baeloth Barrityl gave himself.  Baeloth is a Sorcerer best known for his affectations, arcane ability, arrangements with genies, and his antics.  Though his origins have been generally shrouded in mystery - and Baeloth was not one to want these parts of his life to be published - his preferred method of entertainment has been being a battlemaster for his arena known as The Black Pits.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: The Black Pits, Baeloth’s underground fortress off the Sword Coast and in the Underdark, was where those unfortunate enough to be captured by Baeloth or one of his employees fought to the death for the amusement and profit of onlookers and sponsors.  Records are scarce on how long the Pits lasted and were profitable, but the only survivors’ accounts I found said that the Black Pits were in operation for at least a decade.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: And it was those survivors that ultimately brought the end to Baeloth and the Black Pits.  Baeloth, filled with rage that he had nothing left with which to contain his champion combatants, bet his life and his reputation.  With his death, he lost his pride, his Pits, and his prisoners.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: However, Baeloth was revived.  Somehow.  Perhaps it was his bond with his djinn Najim that revived him.  Perhaps he sold his soul to some infernal creature!  Regardless, Baeloth has continued throughout the surface and Underdark of the Sword Coast and beyond - trying to rebuild and expand upon his legacy.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: As of late, Baeloth has accompanied <CHARNAME> after being employed as the battlemaster of his Black Pits Reborn arena inside the Copper Coronet tavern in Athkatla in Amn.  Baeloth’s interest in the Bhaalspawn Saga has been evident by his quote on the matter, “Nation against nation and brother against brother in a drama like no other!”
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: My venerable Volo, your verbiage concerns me!  Where is the traditional bardic boasting, the poetic praise of my most esteemed endeavors?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: -You- of all people, bard of bards, should know the importance of not -pissing off- a drow with enough arcane aptitude to annihilate a nation!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Well, I’m sorry you felt that way!  Elminster has strongly encouraged me lately to stick to facts!  Surely, there’s a hopeful ending for you, Baeloth!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: <Baeloth sighs.>  (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: I’ll accept that as a sign you agree.
Tankard Tree - Volo’s Description of Hull
VOLO: Formerly of Candlekeep, the once-irresponsible Charlie, more commonly known as Hull, sought to join <CHARNAME> in <PRO_HISHER> journeys due to Gorion’s murder at the hand of Sarevok.  (Gorion was <CHARNAME>’s foster father and a prestigious sage of Candlekeep.)  Hull felt compassion for the now-orphaned <CHARNAME> who, though an adult, had just been evicted from the library fortress of Candlekeep along the Sword Coast near the city of Baldur’s Gate due to Gorion’s exodus.  Hull chose to act as <CHARNAME>’s bodyguard and reminder of <CHARNAME>’s past in the sanctuary of what Hull called a “gilded cage.”
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull’s knighthood quest is complete.>
VOLO: Additionally, Hull and <CHARNAME> helped rid Athkatla’s sewers of an Illithid base and capture the positive attention of Prelate Wessalen of Athkatla’s Most Noble Order of the Radiant Heart.  In so doing, Hull had been granted his long-term dream of being knighted and proving to the world that he was no longer the irresponsible drunkard from his early years, but an accomplished warrior, protector, and man worthy of respect.  He has earned the title of Sir Hull, though has chosen to remain humble and not insist others call him ‘Sir.’
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull’s was in the party when the party fought with Drizzt against Bodhi.>
VOLO: Hull has long idolized his hero, the Drow champion Drizzt Do’Urden.  <CHARNAME> and Hull fought alongside Drizzt in Athkatla to destroy the vampiress Bodhi and sister of the villainous Jon Irenicus.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull was in the party when they talked with Volo in Nashkel in BG1.>
VOLO: Hull has been a long-time admirer of my work, having read Volo’s Guide to the Sword Coast in Candlekeep and gotten one of his first tastes of the outside world.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is a Fighter/Bard (any kit) OR a Bard (any kit).>
VOLO: Furthermore, Hull has expanded his skillset since his early days when he guarded Candlekeep.  He has since become a proficient Bard - which was *quite* fitting considering his generally jovial and joking nature!  Bards occasionally visited Candlekeep to learn and share stories and songs and spells - and I should know!  I was there!  However, prejudice and a lack of prestige about his family prevented him from receiving proper arcane and bardic training sooner, but he has since remedied that.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is a Fighter/Cleric (any kit) OR a Cleric (any kit).>
VOLO: Furthermore, Hull has expanded his skillset since his early days when he guarded Candlekeep.  He has since become a proficient Cleric - which was *quite* fitting considering his upbringing in Candlekeep!  Prejudice and a lack of prestige about his family prevented him from receiving proper divine training sooner, but he has since remedied that.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is a Fighter/Druid (any kit) OR a Druid (any kit).>
VOLO: Furthermore, Hull has expanded his skillset since his early days when he guarded Candlekeep.  He has since become a proficient Druid - which was odd considering Candlekeep’s general lack of affinity with nature.  Certain sources claim that Gorion’s friend Jaheira, a half-elven Druidess, inspired him and guided him in that direction.  Perhaps he felt the call of the wild on his own.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is a Fighter/Mage (any kit) OR a Mage (any kit).>
VOLO: Furthermore, Hull has expanded his skillset since his early days when he guarded Candlekeep.  He has since become a proficient Wizard - which was *quite* fitting considering his upbringing in Candlekeep!  Prejudice and a lack of prestige about his family prevented him from receiving proper arcane training sooner, but he has since remedied that.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is a Fighter/Paladin (any kit but Blackguard) OR a Paladin (any kit but Blackguard).>
VOLO: Furthermore, Hull has expanded his skillset since his early days when he guarded Candlekeep.  He has since become a proficient Paladin - which was a bit unexpected considering his upbringing in Candlekeep, a place not known for training Paladins!  Prejudice and a lack of prestige about his family prevented him from receiving proper divine training sooner, but he has since remedied that.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is a Fighter/Sorcerer (any kit) OR a Sorcerer (any kit).>
VOLO: Furthermore, Hull has expanded his skillset since his early days when he guarded Candlekeep.  His arcane Sorcerous powers have manifested and he has become *quite* the master of the arcane, which was fitting considering his upbringing in Candlekeep!  Prejudice and a lack of prestige about his family prevented him from receiving proper arcane training sooner, but he has since remedied that.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is a Fighter/Thief (any kit) OR a Thie (any kit).>
VOLO: Furthermore, Hull has expanded his skillset since his early days when he guarded Candlekeep.  He has since become a proficient Rogue - which was an *odd* choice considering his many years of *guarding* Candlekeep.  Certain sources claim that the roguish Imoen, Gorion’s other adopted child, was an inspiration.  Perhaps circumstances persuaded him to be *that* sort of guildsman.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is a Fighter/Sorcerer (any kit).>
VOLO: Furthermore, Hull has expanded his skillset since his early days when he guarded Candlekeep.  He has since discovered how to harness his innate sorcerous power - which was *quite* fitting considering his upbringing in Candlekeep!  Prejudice and a lack of prestige about his family prevented him from receiving proper arcane training sooner, but he has since remedied that.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is just a Fighter (any kit).>
VOLO: Furthermore, Hull has stayed true to his roots as a warrior and guard of Candlekeep.  He claimed that he had an interest in expanding his skill set, but he has not yet acted upon that.  Seemingly, circumstances and perhaps also <CHARNAME> persuaded Hull to continue his initial course to better act as <CHARNAME>’s bodyguard.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is a different class.>
VOLO: Furthermore, Hull has gone beyond just being a warrior guarding Candlekeep.  His profession has been one of his closely-guarded secrets to most outsiders.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Overall, Hull is a man who is driven to continue the legacy of the man he has tried to replace and emulate, the Candlekeep sage Gorion.  ‘Uncle’ Hull as he calls himself enjoys being a jovial protector of <CHARNAME> who has enjoyed Hull’s company for many days and many adventures to protect <CHARNAME>, the one the Candlekeep guards still call ‘kiddo’ or ‘kid!’
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: That felt -long- for a summary, but it’s true.  Thanks for remembering me accurately, Volo!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Oh, and when this war is all over, I’d -love- to meet up and talk history with you!  I can buy us some drinks and we can swap stories!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: <Volo again smiles and nods.>
Tankard Tree - Volo’s Description of Imoen - Hull’s Reaction
VOLO: From an anonymous childhood in the monastery at Candlekeep Imoen stepped forth, a young woman with the blood of an immortal in her veins, and the power of an archmage at her command.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-- 
IMOEN: Ooh, an archmage!  I like the sound of that!  But you forgot beautiful.  All the sorceresses in Winthrop’s books were beautiful and terrible.  Watch, see?  See how I flip my hair and glare at you... don’t I look evil?
<Append this dialog.>
HULL: An archmage?  Since when did you enter construction, girl?  I’ve never seen you make any cathedrals!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-- 
IMOEN: Hmm.  Come on.  <used voiced lines from here (BG1) and here (BG2)>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-- 
HULL: I got you to smile, Imoen!  Volo did too!  You’ve been low on that ever since Irenicus took ya!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-- 
IMOEN: <Imoen smiles and winks at Hull.>
Tankard Tree - Volo’s Description of Trinden
VOLO: While I feel I have barely known Trinden Felsad, a -fascinating- being who has assured me he is a fully-blooded orc, he has undergone a ritual to transform him into a green dragon of the bipedal kind!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Trinden hails from a different plane, one where magical innovations are frequent.  He calls it Yevir, named after the plane’s mother goddess who slept at the heart of the world.  Trinden was also part of an expedition who actually -met- this goddess person and who accepted the call to become a deity, though as of this writing, he barely begun his training in what it means to -be- a deity.  This research mission was -crucial- to how to handle the often forgotten realm of godly politics!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: However, Trinden was not always this way.  He has humbler origins as the son of an orc chieftain warrior raised largely by his magically-inclined uncle at the cusp of a metaphysical revolution!  Trinden has barely spoken of his birth parents, but regards his uncle, Conrad Linus Felsad, in the utmost regard!  Indeed, it was Trinden’s uncle who - according to Trinden - found ways to directly channel the power of gods into magic items and use this power to create cities, feed the masses, and provide a comfortable lifestyle for people with little cost to themselves!  In short, Conrad bought the loyalty of the people through public service.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Trinden’s world was rife with intrigue and indirect conflict.  He has even written his own autobiography, “The Metaphysical Revolution,” explaining his situation and journey to divinity.  With his permission, I will help publish this work.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: But what talents does Trinden possess?  He is a warrior and a priest, a ferocious fighter, and -quite- the diplomat!  He is comfortable with swords, spells, and suave speeches.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Oh yes!  One more thing!  Trinden has come to this plane in part to ensure that the lessons of his life and his plane are preserved for many!  On behalf of all of Faerun, we thank you trinden for your literary contributions!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: Your short summary is sufficient.  Thank you, Volo.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: And thank -you!-  It is so -rare- that I meet such an -accomplished- being who will talk and write -openly- about their experiences!  So many were afraid I was after their secrets!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: Such is the nature of trust.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Any last words for future readers?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: No.  My autobiography is enough for now.
Tankard Tree - Volo’s Description of Volo (Himself)
VOLO: Volothamp Geddarm, more commonly known throughout the realms and the planes as Volo, is a sage of sages, a storyteller of storyteller, and a bard of bards.  He is a published author, an entertainer, a surgeon, a swashbuckler, and one of the most accomplished men alive!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: This accomplishment came by overcoming many difficulties, of course!  After all, not many mages would willingly surrender their magical secrets to be published throughout the world, and the lands themselves did not rise up and accurately describe themselves to Volo for him to map and record!  No!  He journeyed far and wide and left his records to dazzle, amaze, and educate you, the dear reader!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: As of late, he has been encouraged by his dear friend Elminster - yes, THAT Elminster; the Sage of Shadowdale and Chosen of Mystra - to follow <CHARNAME> and <PRO_HISHER> exploits along with other offspring of Bhaal as part of the Bhaalspawn Saga!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: What will be the exciting conclusion of this saga?  Who shall win?  Where shall the valiant Volothamp Geddarm travel afterwards and what mighty deeds shall he accomplish?  These answers and more in future works!  Thank you for your patronage!
Gromnir Il-Khan - Baeloth & Hull
GROMNIR: Bah!  Gromnir knows the truth!  We is no idiot!  Melissan has brought this outsider in to kill Gromnir!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, this seems more ‘n’ more likely.
GROMNIR: Gromnir will never meet with this Bhaalspawn of yours!  HAH!!  Gromnir is wise to Melissan’s schemes.  Melissan wants to turn Bhaalspawn against Bhaalspawn until all are dead!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: He sounds like Illasera!  I hope he isn’t right!
GROMNIR: So the assassin is here!  HAH!!  Ha ha!  Good fun!  <CHARNAME> has come to kill Gromnir, eh.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Gromnir, sir, I’d prefer -not- to kill you.  We’ve done enough killing already!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: We are diplomatic emissaries, sir!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GROMNIR: Melissan sent you, Bhaalspawn!  Melissan lies!  Can’t you see it?  -She- is the mad one!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: OBVIOUSLY, this was going to happen, but the amount of TIME it took borders on insanity!  How do you function on a day-to-day basis? (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Then let chaos be sewn from our passage!
<END DIALOG.  BEGIN FIGHT WITH GROMNIR.>
Gromnir Il-Khan Post-Fight Dialog (Baeloth)
BAELOTH: That Gromnir had a notable presence of mind amidst his apparent madness.  Something sinister stirs.
Why do you say that?
BAELOTH: Many believe insanity is impossible to decipher, but his demeanor belies a twisted trust in and truth to his tale.
He still attacked us!
BAELOTH: He was cornered like a cur, like a thrall on his throne!  What did you expect from one of his disposition, diplomacy?
How could you tell?
BAELOTH: Plenty of pitiful combatants in the Black Pits tried pleading insanity, believing their defense impenetrable.  Their ruse tended to run out right when they realized they would be fighting for their lives in the next match anyway.
What should we do with the insights of his ‘insanity?’
BAELOTH: Consider them carefully.  The brute’s a bastard, but with Big Daddy Bhaal’s babies battling each other like siblings squabbling over the last silver, he sounded like he’s pointing the blame.
Got it.
BAELOTH: Good.
One more time with fewer words.
BAELOTH: Trust no one.  Blame everyone.  Everyone’s a bastard!
Let’s move on.
BAELOTH: We mustn’t keep Big Daddy Bhaal waiting!  <END DIALOG.>
Gromnir Il-Khan Post-Fight Dialog (Hull)
HULL: Kid, I just got a bad feeling about where all this is going.  What did you think of that Gromnir guy?
<Pick one.>
He’s totally nuts!
HULL:  He’s crazy, yeah, but Irenicus was crazy and he -also- had a point!
What was that, Hull?
HULL: The point?  “I am what you make me.”  The elves did that, kid.  They messed him up.
I don’t know -who- around here to trust!
HULL:  Well, kid, the Shadow Thieves used you, Bodhi used you, Irenicus used you, Sarevok used you, and others probably did too.  I’m seeing a pattern here.
<If Sarevok is in the party.>
SAREVOK: <Sarevok smiles confidently.>
I felt sorry for him.
HULL:  I did too, kid.  All he saw was death, even in Melissan.
Something was off about him, and it wasn’t because he seemed crazy.
HULL: Yeah, kid.  I got a hunch that something about what he said was right, but I don’t know what it is yet.
Do you think he was right about Melissan?
HULL: I hope not, kid.  I hope not.
I don’t wanna talk about it now, Hull.
HULL:  Suit yourself, kid.
Forest of Mir - Master Wraith Impersonates Gorion Convincingly (Hull/Trinden/Volo)
GORION: Halt.  Go no farther.  I wish to speak with you, my old ward.
<After the player responds - if Hull is in the party.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull looks wide-eyed at Gorion!>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Uh...
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<After the player responds - if Volo is in the party.>
VOLO: Well, -this- is news!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GORION: I saved you, <CHARNAME>.  I hid you from those who would hunt you.  I taught you and enabled you to become what you are.  I *died* for you.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GORION: And you have failed me and everything I hoped you would be.  That is why I am murdered by you.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: Feeling resentful in your afterlife, Gorion?  This isn’t like you!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Imoen is in the party.>
GORION: And Imoen... my second hope.  You have turned her into a conspirator to your own failure.  All her potential... lost.  How both of you disgust me so.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: No!  No, Gorion, don’t say these things!  Please!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull and Imoen are in the party.>
HULL: Gorion, what’s wrong?  Did you forget how good you were in life?  Did Sarevok piss on your grave to make you so bitter?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Sarevok is in the party.>
GORION: You think this animal, Sarevok, is responsible for my death?  I expect no better of him.  He is a slave to ambition, and yet you resurrect him and hail him as a comrade.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SAREVOK: Beware, old man.  You were in my way once.  Do not tempt me a second time.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull and Sarevok are in the party.>
HULL: Gorion, I was gonna kill Sarevok - AGAIN - but your ward over there had other plans.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Baeloth is in the party, regardless of the presence of other party members.>
GORION: And you, Baeloth!  I know of you!  Your violent displays in the Underdark were only made possible because of the knowledge you stole from Candlekeep’s scholars by stealing away their visitors!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Why, whatever do you mean, old man?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GORION: You killed off mages by the hundreds and looted the writings off their corpses to add to your archives and grow your power!  You enslaved the surface’s scholars for your own greedy benefit and destroyed some of the best academic minds of our time!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: My, my.  -Someone- here is just jealous!  Candlekeep has been storing scrolls away from the world for longer than you were alive!  Besides, there’s always more talent and tenacity where these casters come from!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GORION: All you can see is war!  You are the epitome of the evils of your kind - cunning, conniving, destructive, self-centered, and blind to just how -vile- your kind truly is!  Do the world a favor and kill yourselves off already for the good of the rest of us!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Oohoohoohoo, I'm gonna work out some anger on you. (from here)
<If Volo is in the party, regardless of the presence of other party members.>
GORION: And you, Volo, always the liar and braggart!  Do you not know the harm you have done to wizards the world over?  Must Elminster save you from your own -incompetence- and -indiscretion?-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: <Volo looks with curiosity and pained anger toward Gorion.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GORION: The head of Candlekeep wanted your head on a silver platter for setting back the noble craft of literature over a -hundred- years!  I vouched for you to live, and you -continue- to produce this -common trash- unfit for anyone to read?!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Gorion, you were such a wise and friendly man!  Do you want help moving to another afterlife?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GORION: You, Volo, are a disaster wherever you go!  You endanger my child <CHARNAME> by your very presence!  The world wants you -dead!-  When you will you do them a favor and -kill yourself- to save the rest of us from your -curse?-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: You are NOT the Gorion I know!  I DEMAND to know what is going on here!
<If Hull is in the party, regardless of the presence of other party members.>
GORION: And you, Hull, always the drunkard!  You squandered your flame of ambition in meager pursuits!  You always tried to catch me teaching so you could learn my secrets and waste my time begging me for help, not like you ever comprehended anything scholarly I tried teaching you anyway!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull’s face twitches with pained conviction.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GORION: You let me die at the hands of Sarevok just to become a hollowed-skull impersonator of me!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I -respected- you, Gorion!  I lived trying to be a noble man -just like you!-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Bitter tears fall down Hull’s face.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: What the -hell- is wrong with you?!
<Immediately before combat begins with the Master Wraith.>
HULL: No, it’s YOU who’s the impostor!  On behalf of Candlekeep, it’s time to extinguish YOUR flame!
<After killing the Master Wraith, once the party is out of combat.>
HULL: Being insulted for my identity -and- doing my job still hurt, kid.  At least -that’s- over.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I hope the -real- Gorion’s resting peacefully wherever he went and not tormented by the legacy of Bhaal.  Or you.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: What made you disbelieve that trickery, anyway?
<Pick one.>
Gorion never talked to me like that.
HULL: The fake sounded like an angry drunk!  <END DIALOG.>
We know Gorion is dead and not coming back.
HULL: <Hull shrugs and nods.>  <END DIALOG.>
I’ve been tricked and manipulated so much that I don’t trust this sort of stuff.
HULL: I’m -glad- you learned your lesson!  <END DIALOG.>
HULL: I’m glad you guessed correctly, kid.  <END DIALOG.>
I’d rather not talk about it.
HULL: So be it.  <END DIALOG.>
Nyalee Dialog - Append This Dialog (Baeloth, Hull, Volo)
<After accepting her quest to get Yaga-Shura’s and her hearts.>
HULL: That sick, twisted witch was like Gorion to Yaga-Shura if Gorion were corrupted by Bhaal!
<After returning the 2 hearts to her.>
NYALEE: Oh!  ‘Tis Nyalee’s heart, it is!  The spawn-child has found Nyalee’s poor heart!  And, yes...  this be the boy’s heart as well.  Give Nyalee her heart, and she will extinguish the boy’s, she will, oh yes!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You’re sadistic!  It fits your religion.
NYALEE: You...  you will hurt my boy, won’t you?  No...  no, what has Nyalee done?!  My poor boy, the spawn-child will hurts him!  Nyalee must stop <PRO_HIMHER>!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: A mother’s love for her son will be her downfall?  What an interesting twist of events!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: What an indecisive bitch.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: All she wanted was saccharine, sanguine bloodshed.  I felt a faint familial bond already!
Yaga-Shura Dialog - Append This Dialog (Baeloth, Hull, Volo)
<After hurting Yaga-Shura.>
YAGA-SHURA: What?  No!  No, this cannot be!  I am wounded?!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: What did you expect?  I didn’t think you were a Lich!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: The larger they are, the more lucrative their black market body parts!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: As they say, “Ashes to ashes and time to crumble -you- to dust!”
Back in the Pocket Plane Post-Yaga-Shura’s Death (Baeloth, Hull, Volo)
GORION: Her task was to slay her own child, sacrifice her babe upon the bloodiest of altars.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Uh...  Gorion, hell -can’t- be your afterlife!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SAREVOK: It mattered not.  I killed Gorion in the end.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Death delivered! (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And Sarevok, you’re -still- a bastard for it!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Sarevok is in the party.>
SAREVOK: <Sarevok smirks.>
<Regardless if Volo is in the party.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Yes, yes, I knew that already, but thank you!
Back at the Yaga-Shura Battleground After Alianna’s Reveal (Baeloth/Hull/Volo)
MELISSAN: Be careful, <CHARNAME>.  You are my last hope... and perhaps the last hope of anyone in Faerun, whether you care about it or not.  I will see you in Amkethran.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Hope?  For whose wicked scheme?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Such eagerness and even -desperation- in her voice!  The -rising action- is near its end and the -climax- is soon to come!  Soon we shall reach the -thrilling conclusion- of... the BHAALSPAWN SAGA!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: All this conflict, all this violence, and I don’t even get to -witness- it!  Bah!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: When will the retribution end?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Bhaal would kill his children for another chance at life.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: This is madness.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull sighs and shakes his head.>
Neera’s ToB Quest (Coliseum) - Assumes Neera is are in the party (Also accounts for Baeloth, Hull, and Volo)
DENNATON: What an exciting, thoroughly unpredictable performance!  You never know what you’re going to see when you come to Dennaton’s coliseum, ladies and gentlemen!  One day it’s an autharch, the next day it could be a dragon or even a god!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull looks at you curiously, as if to say, “Did he know?”>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: -Another- arena?  I wasn’t prepared!  I suppose we’ll just have to use our general strategies for overcoming them, then!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Oh, ho ho!  What have we here?  The well-renowned Gladiators of Thay arena?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: My sweet, sanguine circle!  I have -plans- for you!
<CONTINUE SCENE.>
ToB: ABAZIGAL’S LAIR
Talking with Monk - Baeloth/Hull/Trinden/Volo in the Party
MONK: My injuries are too severe, my tortured body too defiled so that even healing magics can no longer save me.  *cough*  I resisted death’s embrace only out of duty to Balthazar.  *cough*  *hack*  But now, you will kill Abazigal, and I am freed from my duty to this world.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Volo is in the party.>
VOLO: We wish you well!  Besides, I do believe that fighting a dragon will be -exciting!-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Trinden is in the party.>
TRINDEN: You are a contradiction.  Your charge to us is convenient, but your weakness -disgusts- me.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: Know that we’re gonna do all we can to prevent Bhaal from returning!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Baeloth is in the party.>
BAELOTH: Yes, yes.  We know Big Daddy Bhaal wants his blood and body back.  Be a good boy and help us here, or die quietly in peace.  Your choice.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull & Rasaad are in the party, regardless of Baeloth.>
HULL: Rasaad, -this- is one sorta weakness I was concerned about for you.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
RASAAD: <Rasaad frowns and sighs.>  Your concern for my well-being is noted, Hull.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Drizzt is in the party regardless of the presence of Rasaad and Hull.>
DRIZZT: I am all too familiar with these torture marks like the ones the drow Handmaidens enjoyed all too much putting on others.  He rightfully -knows- he is a dead man.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Volo is in the party regardless of the presence of others.>
VOLO: I... sense we’re in too much of a hurry to study these wounds - for -scholarly- reasons, of course!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: <Volo leans in toward the monk and quickly examines him, scribbling something as he went.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: A quick sketch will have to do!
<CONTINUE SCENE.>
Talking with Iycanth the Mad - Baeloth/Hull/Trinden/Volo in the Party
IYCANTH THE MAD: Yes, I suppose they do.  You seem resourceful.  Find some way to help them, and I’m sure they’ll take the “quest.”
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Trinden is in the party.>
TRINDEN: I have -plenty- of ideas on how to handle our new subordinates.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Baeloth is in the party.>
BAELOTH: Molding my minions’ minds will be at least a modicum of comfort.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Volo is in the party.>
VOLO: Ah, a captive audience eager to be rewarded by us!  How delightful!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party regardless of others.>
HULL: Kid, I think we’re the bosses now!  I’m not sure how I’m meant to feel.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: So, who’s gonna unpetrify these guys?
<CONTINUE SCENE.>
After with Abazigal’s Fight - Baeloth/Hull/Trinden/Volo in the Party
ABAZIGAL: Know this even as I die, fool!  You have been used and misled.  Witness the truth to which you have been so blind!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: If you wanted to spare us some violence, you shoulda started off with that!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Wasted words, wyrm.  Facilitate friendship -first- lest it finagle its way into fighting!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Sorry you felt that way!  It -is- a bit late to fulfill what you stated.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: Empty words from a dying dragon.  Did you not believe that -everyone- is a scheming bastard?
<CONTINUE SCENE.>
Talking with Elminster - Baeloth/Drizzt/Hull/Trinden/Volo in the Party
ELMINSTER: Watching your progress?  Well, not as much as I likely should have.  I wish I had known long ago that Gorion would be right.  I would have done more than warn you about your destiny, I think.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Baeloth is in the party, regardless of others’ presence.>
BAELOTH: What a watchful fan we have here, the epic and eternal Elminster!  It’s -incredibly- incidental we be pursued by you!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Let me entertain you! (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: Ah, Baeloth Barrityl the Battlemaster of the Black Pits and would-be god of organized war.  I would prefer we keep things civil.  The look in your eyes and the smell of blood in the air around you already told me you have recently partaken of your preferred profession and pastime.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: <Baeloth grins and winks at Elminster.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: You would do well to consider bringing up the weak and promoting mutual strength and mutual strength.  After the conclusion of this Bhaalspawn Saga as Volo has called it, I recommend you find and befriend a mage known as Alveus Malcanter.  He could benefit -greatly- from your tutelage.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Alveus Malcanter?  Never heard of him.  (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: <Elminster smiles.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: You will, and you two are more similar than you realize.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Trinden is in the party, regardless of others’ presence.>
TRINDEN: So, -you- are a sage of this plane.  What should I know of the situation?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: Trinden Felsad, I have heard of your arrival.  While Faerun receives many planar visitors, few are from alternative material planes.  Welcome.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: The situation on this plane is war, as you should well know.  None of the subterfuge of your home realm, but open violent conflict.  The dead god Bhaal, Lord of Murder, is eager to have his offspring destroy each other so that he will reform.  He truly believed in one of the points of your trinity, Trinden, that “violence solves everything.”
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: <Trinden quietly nods.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: You wish to know what it’s like to be a god?  Witness how our pantheon has bickered throughout time immemorial.  I recommend you overcome their weakness, Trinden, and focus on bringing up the weak to help them to be strong.  Adversity is just a fact of life, but how each being reacts to adversity is their important choice.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: Thank you, sir.  What else do you advise?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: <Elminster smiles.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: You would do well to continue to learn from <CHARNAME> and the company <PRO_HESHE> keeps.  Is this the sort of person you want to be when you have such power?  Surely, you are wise enough to decide this for yourself.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: <Trinden bows gratefully toward Elminster.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: Be cautious about what revolutions you start or carry on.  You may not want to finish them.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: I understand your words well, sir.  Thank you.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party regardless of others.>
HULL: Elminster?  It’s been awhile.  It’s been a -long- time!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: Ah, Hull, the one who did his best to take Gorion’s place.  I thank you for your courage.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thank you, sir!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: Your desire to stand in for my colleague Gorion was admirable, though we both know none could truly take his place.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Agreed, sir.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: No need to ‘sir’ me, Hull.  Though you may not be a god, you are still a man worth remembering within the halls of Candlekeep and beyond.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull sighs in relief as his face flushes red, tears falling down his face.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: Hull, you received what you wanted, what your heart dreamed about while staring at walls and sneaking peeks at the greatest library on the Sword Coast.  Consider that for a moment.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I will, uh, Elminster, my, uh, friend.  I’m gonna need a -long- moment!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: <Elminster smiles and nods at Hull.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Drizzt is in the party regardless of others’ presence.>
ELMINSTER: Drizzt Do’Urden, perhaps I should have been keeping a closer watch on you as well.  The rumors of your desire to help us here on the surface are -more- than true, and you too are a living legend - a legend that grows by the hour at this point!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: You are most gracious, an’kin.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Volo is in the party regardless of others’ presence.>
ELMINSTER: And you, Volo, were one I was not entirely surprised to find here.  History has had a way of finding you and fate has had a way of preserving you.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: <Volo smiles and bows to Elminster.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Thank you.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: When you record this, as I know you are fond of doing, keep to the -facts.-  This truth is likely more interesting than exaggeration!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: <Elminster raises his eyebrow at Volo and gives him a knowing wink.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: <Volo smiles and winks back at Elminster.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: Let me make it clear to all those here I am glad that you, Volo, have accompanied <CHARNAME> a significant while.  Again, I eagerly await your -factual- report!  Save the sensationalism for the stage.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Surely, my friend!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: You know better than to make me repeat myself.  After all, the fate of the world awaits us.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: Yes, as I was saying...
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: There may be another way in, but you’ll have to find it on your own.  Now... I must go.  From this point on, attaining your destiny is completely your own affair.  I wish you well.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: Elminster, one more thing briefly!  Can you spare a Bag of Holding?  I have something to settle with Gorion’s Ward, here.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: <Elminster smiles at Hull.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: Take this and enjoy.  I’m sure none of the powers will bat an eyelash at this considering how close you are to the end of your journey.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: <Elminster doffs his hat, winks at Hull, then disappears.>
<The party gains Elminster’s Bag of Holding.>
<If Hull & Volo are in the party.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Why, whatever was -that- about?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I can tell you when you’re older.  Let’s talk on the way.
<END DIALOG.>
ToB: AMKETHRAN
Finding Saemon Havarian & Mercenaries
SAEMON: Your arrival is a happy coincidence, given the situation.  You can actually solve my dispute with these rather upset gentlemen.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: Saemon Havarian, you son of a bitch!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
MERCENARY: And those boots look like the ones I’m missing!  You’ve got our stuff!
<Add this dialog option if the party took the boat to leave Spellhold with Saemon.>
So Saemon -clearly- didn’t tell you how he -stranded me at sea- and left me to -die- in the Underdark?  Because if you want this stuff, you’re gonna need to kill someone who’s bested drow, demons, dragons, and Hell itself because of Saemon’s treachery, and I -don’t- think you want that.
<if Hull is in the party.>
HULL: That’ll show ‘em, kid!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
MERCENARY 1: <The mercenary looks at his associate then at <CHARNAME> then at his associate again.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
MERCENARY 2: Y’know, maybe that -isn’t- my stuff after all.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<Saemon uses Dimension Door to escape as normal.  The mercenaries walk off screen and are removed from the game world.  END DIALOG.>
<Add this dialog option if the party killed Demogorgon.>
It doesn’t much matter to me what Saemon said.  Because if you want this stuff, you’re gonna need to kill someone who’s killed Demogorgon himself at the bottom of Watcher’s Keep, a GOD of the ABYSS, and I -don’t- think you want that.
<CONTINUE AS IF THE PARTY HAD CHOSEN THE ‘SAEMON IS A TREACHEROUS SEA MAN’ OPTION.>
<Add this dialog option if Trinden is in the party.>
So, this Saemon ruffian set you up.  I understand; however, I am a -god- whose time matters -tremendously- to me!  Drop the matter -now- before I mind control -all- of you and puppeteer your bodies into fighting each other to the death then animating your corpses as my undead slaves for the offense of CROSSING me!
<if Hull is also in the party.>
HULL: Life on your home plane taught to act like -that?-  Whoa!
<CONTINUE AS IF THE PARTY HAD CHOSEN THE ‘SAEMON IS A TREACHEROUS SEA MAN’ OPTION.>
<Add this dialog if Baeloth is in the party.>
Baeloth, you take it from here.
BAELOTH: How could I forget?! Allow me to introduce myself. I am Baeloth Barrityl, more commonly known as BAELOTH THE ENTERTAINER! Yes, I know. THAT Baeloth. Fall to your knees and beg for mercy; I'm sure you know the drill. (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
MERCENARY 1: Baeloth?  Here?!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
MERCENARY 2: You heard what he did to those Monks that run the place, right?  His genie turned them all into slimes and sent ‘em away to a deathmatch pit!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<CONTINUE AS IF THE PARTY HAD CHOSEN THE ‘SAEMON IS A TREACHEROUS SEA MAN’ OPTION.>
Saemon Havarian for Balthazar Monastery access with Baeloth/Hull/Trinden/Volo in the party
TRINDEN: So, -you’re- the scoundrel who set us up with those thugs.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Saemon Havarian, you son of a bitch!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SAEMON: I’ve been called worse... whoever you are.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<SAEMON’S NORMAL DIALOG STARTS HERE.  CONTINUE SCENE.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SAEMON: And then there’s the business of my poor men here.  If it weren’t for you and all those other Bhaalspawn, my little smuggling business could have continued quietly as it was.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: My sympathy for you -ended- the moment my -trouble- with you -began!-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Whatever.  Don’t expect any sympathy from me.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Surely we can come to an amicable arrangement.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SAEMON: Did I say that?  But you are involved at least indirectly, whether you had any malicious intent or no.  I certainly don’t harbor any ill will toward you, after all.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: A wise stance, but know that I am -watching- you.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull rolls his eyes at Saemon in disbelief then shrugs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Well, I appreciate your civility, Saemon!  Surely we can get along!
Balthazar Initial Meeting - Baeloth/Drizzt/Hull/Trinden/Volo
BALTHAZAR: I am Balthazar, head of the monastic order here in Amkethran and its ruler as well, though Melissan preceded you and told me of your coming.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: Melissan seemed eager to prepare our presence and seek your council.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party, regardless of others’ presence.>
HULL: <Hull bows.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Drizzt is in the party, regardless of others’ presence.>
DRIZZT: I thank you for not turning my arrival here into a spectacle.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BALTHAZAR: Drizzt Do’Urden, I presume?  <Balthazar blinks.>  Yes, it is you.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BALTHAZAR: Even with your reputation, expect no preferential treatment from me.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: <Drizzt nods.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Volo is in the party, regardless of others’ presence.>
BALTHAZAR: Is this the spinner of tales, Volo?  I thought Amkethran would not be worth mentioning in your works.  Hardly anything interesting happens here.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: I assure you my good fellow that we are here on a peaceful research expedition!  Perhaps we will find something of note!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BALTHAZAR: Be that as it may, expect no favors from me.  Times are tough enough without rumors of my giving you more than your fair share of anything or encouraging you to poke around in private property.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Well, alright.  Let me know if you want my help entertaining your men!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BALTHAZAR: Your proposal is well-intentioned, bard, but we are monks.  We are here to meditate in isolation from the distractions of society.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: <Volo reluctantly nods.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Baeloth is in the party, regardless of others’ presence.>
BALTHAZAR: I know you, -drow.-  Your genie kidnapped some of my men who went to civilizations in the north to trade.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: My reputation precedes me even here?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Quite the conundrum!  (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BALTHAZAR: I have since forgiven you.  Indeed, your methods of enslavement proved useful as motivators for my remaining men to train harder should any of your associates cause trouble for us.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Mmmmm?  (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BALTHAZAR: Remember, if you start trouble in my city, expect my men to -end it!-  That -especially- applies to you, Baeloth!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: So be it!  I will bestir this brave band into acts of astonishing acclaim!  (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BALTHAZAR: That’s none of your business.  You’ll not be allowed into my fortress... anywhere else is open to you.  Good day and good luck to you, <CHARNAME>.
Balthazar: Pre-Fight (Baeloth/Drizzt/Hull/Trinden/Volo)
<If Balthazar goes hostile against the party with Hull in the party.>
HULL: Balthazar, I wish we didn’t need to kill you like this!  You were pretty nice!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Balthazar goes hostile against the party with Volo in the party, regardless of others’ presence.>
VOLO: Can we simply -talk- about this?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Balthazar goes hostile against the party with Trinden in the party, regardless of others’ presence.>
TRINDEN: I initially respected your wishes, Balthazar, but you have unfortunately proven yourself -entirely- unreasonable.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Balthazar goes hostile against the party with Baeloth in the party, regardless of others’ presence.>
BAELOTH: Don’t think your lonely lifestyle has prepared you for a proper pounding from me of the arcane assortment!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Balthazar goes hostile against the party with Drizzt in the party, regardless of others’ presence.>
DRIZZT: Balthazar, I expected better from you, not act like the many before me who thought they could kill me because of my reputation!
<END DIALOG.>
Balthazar: Redeemed (Ascension Mod)
<If the convince score is at least 4 according to this file at the end of the CHARNAME/Balthazar dialog> 
<If Trinden is in the party.>
TRINDEN: -This- is the sort of alliance I -expected- from a man of your caliber!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BALTHAZAR: We agree our common goal is clear:  Stop the return of Bhaal.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: Well, Balthazar, I’m lookin’ forward to us finishing this fight together!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Drizzt is in the party, regardless of others’ presence.>
DRIZZT: Balthazar, this is the sort of mannerism I expected from you from the start!  I am glad we can combat this threat as allies!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Drizzt or/and Hull is in the party.>
BALTHAZAR: As am I, for the good of us all.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Volo is in the party, regardless of others’ presence.>
VOLO: Let us make history together!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BALTHAZAR: <Balthazar sternly nods at Volo.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Baeloth is in the party, regardless of others’ presence.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: So, Balthazar, your big bald brain has becomingly agreed to betray your birth and prevent the rebirth of Big, Bad Bhaal?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BALTHAZAR: Baeloth, you make it seem like years of meditation and patience to rid me of the evil urges because of my heritage are a trivial matter.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Balthazar, you brilliant Bhaalspawn!  Can you not see that your years of painful preparation have led you to a poignant conclusion?  Either we win and Big, Bad Bhaal is beaten back, or we lose and we’re all Bhaal bait!  We may as well enjoy ourselves along the way!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: That is... a crudely simple way of putting it.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: <Baeloth grins.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Let the battle begin! (from AoN: Baeloth sound set)
<END DIALOG.>
Balthazar: Suicided (Ascension Mod)
<If the convince score is at least 1 and at most 3 according to this file at the end of the CHARNAME/Balthazar dialog - Hull is in the party.> 
HULL: Well, Balthazar, I’m gonna miss ya.  Sorry you felt you hadda kill yourself to stop Bhaal.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Bathazar suicides with Drizzt in the party, regardless of others’ presence.>
DRIZZT: <Drizzt shakes his head in disapproval at Balthazar’s suicide.>  There were better ways to handle this, abbil.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Bathazar suicides with Trinden in the party, regardless of others’ presence.>
TRINDEN: -You- of all men are such a wise and worthy man to fight this threat!  Your suicide shames those who served you and gave their lives for your success!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Bathazar suicides with Baeloth in the party, regardless of others’ presence.>
BAELOTH: Another contender collapses! (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Bathazar suicides with Volo in the party, regardless of others’ presence.>
VOLO: Balthazar the Monk lived as he died - quietly and alone.  Poor fellow.
<END DIALOG.>
Talking with Carras in Smuggler’s Cave (Hull/Trinden)
CARRAS: There are no witnesses to this battle but ourselves, and we will make sure Balthazar knows nothing of your involvement.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Trinden is in the party.>
TRINDEN: Good.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: Thanks, I think.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
Talking with Cabrina & Hexxat if Hexxat is in the party (Hull/Trinden/Volo)
HEXXAT: There’s more going on here than you know.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: Alright girl, start talkin’.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Trinden is in the party.>
TRINDEN: Start explaining.  -Now!-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Volo is in the party.>
VOLO: My notes are prepared!  Please, tell us your story!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
Talking with Kerrick the Smith (Baeloth/Hull/Trinden/Volo)
KERRICK THE SMITH: I commend you for your good taste, my <PRO_LADYLORD>!  If you had, say, a trio of such specimens... specifically the golden, silver, *and* bronze varieties... well, I could make you an outfit which the gods themselves would fear!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Trinden is in the party.>
TRINDEN: You, sir, are -insane-... or a visionary.  Either way you have my respect for your innovative experimentation.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Volo is in the party.>
VOLO: I must say, your request is by far the -strangest- I’ve ever heard from a smith!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KERRICK: Some would say so.  I’m no ordinary smith and I assure you I know what I’m doin’!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: <Volo shrugs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Baeloth is in the party.>
BAELOTH: Well, this is awkward.  (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KERRICK: <Kerrick smiles and winks at Baeloth.>
<If Hull is in the party, regardless of others’ presence.>
HULL: Kerrick, you’re crazy.  And you may just be the lunatic we’re looking for.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KERRICK THE SMITH: <Kerrick smirks at Hull.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<CONTINUE SCENE.>
After Receiving the Big Metal Unit in Inventory (Hull)
HULL: Kid, that’s... not pants.
What else did you expect?
HULL: Pants.
What -is- this thing?
HULL: Looks like some super fancy full plate.  I’d like to try it on, kid!
Time to try this thing on!
HULL: Alright!  I call next!  <END DIALOG.>
After Receiving the Big Metal Unit in Inventory (Trinden)
TRINDEN: This device is seemingly an augmented astral construct metaphysically adjusted to suit its wearer, complete with an arsenal of heavy ranged weaponry.
One more time, Trinden, and in simpler terms!
TRINDEN: Think of astral constructs as short-term psionically-created machines custom-built for a purpose.  Many have been made to encase a wearer for protection, mobility, and armament.
So, they’re magic machine full plates?
TRINDEN: That is an oversimplification, but if it suits you, then so be it.
Do you want to wear this Big Metal Unit?
TRINDEN: Perhaps.  I have never been a fan of wearing bulky armor; however, I am curious to the extent of this device’s capabilities.
That’s all for now.
TRINDEN: <Trinden nods.>  <END DIALOG.>
Talking with Malla after restoring her soul & paying her 5000G (Hull/Trinden/Volo)
MALLA: You... you are very generous.  I wish there were some other way I could repay you.  If... if you are ever in Calminsahn, my <PRO_LADYLORD>, I would be pleased to offer you lodgings.  Sune’s blessing upon you.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Trinden is in the party.>
TRINDEN: Know this young one:  The fact that you live came at a -great- cost to another!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Volo is in the party.>
VOLO: Calimshan?  Well, thank you for the invitation!  Perhaps that shall be the subject of a future book I write!  
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: I -think- we did the right thing, kid.  It was like we were in a no-win situation.
<Pick One.>
I’m pretty sure we did the right thing, Hull.
HULL: Either the lich or the girl or Marlowe had to die, kid.  That was their, ahem, -stupid- deal.  <END DIALOG.>
We did -something-.  Maybe it was the least violent solution.
HULL: <Hull shrugs.>  <END DIALOG.>
I feel regret already.
HULL: Either the lich or the girl or Marlowe had to die, kid.  That was their, ahem, -stupid- deal.  <END DIALOG.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But maybe there was a better way.  Let’s just move on.  <END DIALOG.>
Talking with Marlowe after Vongoethe Fight Assuming Lich Killed and Marlowe Survived (Baeloth/Hull/Trinden)
MARLOWE: So my daughter is dead.  Poor Malla... she paid the price for my cowardice.  I... I made the deal with the lich, offering my soul, to make a better future for us.  But I was too frightened to pay the price, and now everything is gone.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: So -you- pulled the stupid, here!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Baeloth is in the party.>
BAELOTH: A fail!  A flub! (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Volo is in the party.>
VOLO: I... don’t know what to say!  You -knew- it was a bad idea from the outset and yet you did it!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Trinden is in the party.>
TRINDEN: You -never- should have -tried.-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
Talking with Marlowe about Vongoethe’s Deal
MARLOWE: Yes, I’m... not proud of what I’ve done.  I didn’t tell you the truth because I didn’t think you’d help me.  My wife died because I was too frightened to pay the price of my deal.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: So -you- pulled the stupid, here!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Baeloth is in the party.>
BAELOTH: A fail!  A flub! (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Volo is in the party.>
VOLO: I would have tried to help you if I knew the truth!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Trinden is in the party.>
TRINDEN: You are -right.-  Had I known the truth, I would have avoided your plight!  I did not come here to fix -your- mistakes!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
Talking with Vongoethe in Grave Cave (Baeloth/Hull/Trinden/Volo)
VONGOETHE: Heh.  Twenty years of fortune and success, and he asked me for... in exchange for the voluntary surrender of his soul.  Well, he had his success!  Wealth and power both!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Baeloth is in the party.>
BAELOTH: So you say. (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: <Hull facepalms.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Someone pulled a stupid here.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Volo is in the party.>
VOLO: Marlowe -vastly- underestimated his abilities, or the value of his own soul!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Trinden is in the party.>
TRINDEN: It is one being’s word against another.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ToB: SENDAI’S ENCLAVE
Party kills ‘woodsman’ AKA Drow Captain outside Sendai’s enclave (Baeloth/Hull/Trinden)
HULL: Drow trickery?  I’m... not very surprised.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: An illusion?  Eh.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: <Baeloth shrugs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: More deception?  I am more surprised at how -ineffective- it was than the fact that those -drow- tried it!
<END DIALOG.>
Dialog with Diaytha (Baeloth/Drizzt/Hull/)
DIAYTHA: Fool!  I am drow.  You are naught but iblith-filth!  Sendai need not be bothered, for I will destroy you!  Enter Ogremoch’s chamber if you dare.  Defeat him, and I shall face you myself.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: A year ago, that -mighta- sounded like a threat!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DIAYTHA: <Diaytha casually ignores Hull’s words.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Baeloth is in the party.>
BAELOTH: Fight or flee, either way you fall! (From here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DIAYTHA: And you, -male-, should know your -place!-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Is there REALLy no one else you can bother? (From here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DIAYTHA: Hah!  Your cockiness makes me want to castrate you, whoever in the Abyss you are!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Stand and salute your new master, Baeloth the Entertainer!  (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DIAYTHA: Baeloth, you say?  Prepare to fail just like your Black Pits!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Inconceivable!  (from AoN: Baeloth sound set)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Volo is in the party.>
VOLO: Setting the stage, I see!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DIAYTHA: Volo the braggart?  Your observations are as dull as your wit!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Unmistakably keen, madam!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DIAYTHA: You’re dimmer than a Darkness spell, you twit!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: You’re just -jealous- you aren’t a famous author!  You’ve got to -apply- yourself!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Drizzt is in the party regardless of others’ presence.>
DIAYTHA: And -you-, the traitorous Drizzt!  I look forward to killing -you- most of all!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: Your words are as empty as the promises from your so-called goddess!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DIAYTHA: <Diaytha’s eyes seem to glow with fire as she stares at Drizzt.>
<END DIALOG.>
Dialog with Captain Essiesag
CAPTAIN ESSIEAG: Hmph.  That may not necessarily happen.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: Oh, it will.  Trust me.  That beholder’s right this time!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SPECTATOR: Once you’re all ready to start, I’ll cast the geas... so when one of you dies in the fight, everyone who followed that person will die with them.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Baeloth is in the party.>
BAELOTH: Are you ready to spill blood on the arena floor?  (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: I’m -countin’- on ya, kid!  Time to go full god mode on this... whatever you wanna call him.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Volo is in the party.>
VOLO: Well, my friend, you’ve gotten this far!  Surely you shall win!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Trinden is in the party.>
TRINDEN: You WILL succeed!  I did not accompany you to die to such foolishness!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<CONTINUE SCENE.>
After Beating Captain Essiesag in 1v1 Combat - (Baeloth/Hull/Trinden/Volo)
<If Baeloth is in the party.>
BAELOTH: Death delivered! (from here)
<If Volo is in the party.>
VOLO: Oh, I just -knew- you would win!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Trinden is in the party.>
TRINDEN: Good.  Let’s go.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: I LIVE!
Hull, were you not concerned -at all- that you advised me to embrace my murderous side?
HULL: Not this time, kid.  If you died, -I- died.  Maybe everyone in Candlekeep woulda died, too!
Turning that fool into a bloody mess felt -good!-
HULL: It felt so good that -I- felt it too!
<If Baeloth is also in the party.>
BAELOTH: Ooh!  That felt good!  (from AoN: Baeloth sound set)
I won.  We’re moving on.
HULL: Agreed.  <END DIALOG WITH HULL BUT CONTINUE CUTSCENE & DIALOG WITH THE SPECTATOR.>
Dialog with Sendai: Pre-Fight (Baeloth/Drizzt/Hull/Trinden/Volo)
SENDAI: My army has been slaughtered, falling helplessly before your might.  You would have made a great ally to our cause.  Alas, the time for such possibilities is past.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: You shoulda tried -talking- first instead of acting like a murderous drow!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Drizzt is in the party.>
SENDAI: -Especially- because of you, Drizzt Do’Urden.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: Any alliance you proposed would have tainted with the evil of the Spider Queen!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SENDAI: <Sendai smirks and scoffs at Drizzt.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Trinden is in the party.>
TRINDEN: One as stupid as you does not deserve =life-, much less -divinity!-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Baeloth is in the party.>
BAELOTH: What's next?  Ah, this group. (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SENDAI: -Male-, do you -dare- address -me- that way? 
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: How could I forget?  Allow me to introduce myself.  I am Baeloth Barrityl, more commonly known as BAELOTH THE ENTERTAINER! Yes, I know.  THAT Baeloth.  Fall to your knees and beg for mercy; I'm sure you know the drill.  (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SENDAI: Baeloth?  Baeloth!  <Sendai cackles in amusement!>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Mmmm? (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SENDAI: Betray that Bhaalspawn <CHARNAME> for me and my lair could be your newest Black Pits.  Najim left you, but -I- wouldn’t!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: A sound suggestion.  (from AoN: Baeloth sound set)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SENDAI: Do we have a deal?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: I cannot concede to such contemptible, nay, criminal coercion. (from Baeloth’s SoD intro scene)
<CONTINUE SCENE.>
Dialog with Sendai: After Beating Her
SENDAI: Know this:  Even as I die...  the return of our father is inevitable.  Though I fall, others will ensure Bhaal is reborn!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Trinden is in the party.>
TRINDEN: No.  You miscalculate the -competence- of your kin!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Volo is in the party.>
VOLO: Another dying soul muttering more empty words.  How undignified.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Baeloth is in the party.>
BAELOTH: And take that, vile villain! (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: Kid, other words like this were like empty threats.  This... bothered me.  I dunno why, kid.
She’s -dead-, Hull.  She’s stripped of her divine essence!  She isn’t in charge of my story!
HULL: I know.  I know.  There was just... something that seemed painfully true about what she said.
Whatever happens, Hull, know that -we- killed her.
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: It’s a start at least.
Any ideas on why her words bothered you that time?
HULL: Somethin’ in me tells me she -may- be right, and -if- she’s right, you die and the world’s in trouble!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Trinden is also in the party.>
TRINDEN: Remember, Hull, that it is our job to ensure -our- victory!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Trinden, I think you could make something so good sound so -severe.-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: So be it.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, what do you say?
Hull, I know you’re looking out for me.  Worrying doesn’t help us.
HULL: This whole ‘slaying godlings’ business is more than I expected when I shrugged and let Gorion ‘n’ you odda Candlekeep.
Hull, I may not be your god but I -am- effectively a god!  I hereby decree that we will NOT LET BHAAL RETURN!
HULL: <Hull smiles and chuckles.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You’re confident, kid.  I like that in ya.
Hull, let’s move on.  We have more god business to do!
HULL: Kid, I want ya to know that whatever happens, we’ll do whatever we can to make sure Bhaal -stays- dead!
<END DIALOG.>
ToB: PRE-FINAL BATTLE
Party has killed the Ravager - Baeloth is in the Pocket Plane (AR4500)
BAELOTH: I must say <CHARNAME>, fighting your evil alter ego was -quite- the excitement!  I’m glad -I’ll- never need to do the same!
<Pick one.>
Don’t you get it, Baeloth?  It’s more than just violence.  It’s understanding and facing down who you are or could be!
BAELOTH: Oh, I’ve learned a -lot- since my yesteryear being battlemaster of the Black Pits.  I’ve died before and if time doesn’t stand still forever, I’ll die again.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: But I have many long years of life left and I plan to live them to the fullest.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: I know my role as battlemaster of battlemasters, captain of combatants, and patriarch of the pits!  Many others would be wise to learn their role, know their role, and do their role, for the rest is just - shall we say - extra credit.
Baeloth, you’re no Bhaalspawn!  How can you know what it’s like to face down your alter ego?
BAELOTH: Oh, I’ve found -many- in my time who resembled me.  A few reminded me -too much- of myself.  Always ambitious.  Tremendously tenacious and territorial.  Eager to eviscerate and educate in equal measure.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: One by one or many by many they were bettered in battle, but not -all- of them.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: When I could no longer consider the shame and suffering of the mere -thought- of surrender, I faced one in a ‘fair’ fight.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Let me tell you that it’s only -fair- if you win!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: With that most -humiliating- massacre, my life was over - literally and figuratively speaking.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: My body bashed in and my Black Pits broken before my blurring vision, I realized I had been bettered by someone who understands the game:  Win, wither away, or wind up in the shadows manipulating the strings.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Let’s just call -you- lucky.
Sorry you felt that way.
BAELOTH: I appreciate your affection, but what’s past is past.
Serves you right!
BAELOTH: Did I -deserve- the dismal deeds done to me?  Maybe, but who’s to say for certain?
I have a destiny to fulfill.  I’d better get to that!
BAELOTH: I congratulate you on the kindness of your company, but I have but one -pressing- request.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: When you move out to murder Melissan, let me join you.  I’ve inferred deities make the most -marvelous- militants, and fighting one in a winner-take-all match would make my day!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Besides, what better time to be a battlemaster than in a brawl that WILL go down in history as an altercation of the ages, a war of the worlds, and our finest hour?
<END DIALOG.>
Party has killed the Ravager - Hull is in the Pocket Plane (AR4500)
HULL: Kid, I think you just killed your evil side.
<Pick one.>
Don’t be so sure, Hull.
HULL: Kid, I’d rather be sure.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: With all the death and destruction lately, and knowing your destiny, I’m pretty sure Bhaal’s taint got trapped in that thing and it’s dead.
I agree, Hull.
HULL: Good, kid.  I’m glad we agree.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: With all the death and destruction lately, and knowing your destiny, I’m pretty sure Bhaal’s taint got trapped in that thing and it’s dead.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I got one -major- request, kid.  When you fulfill your destiny and turn that bitch Melissan into shitstains on the ground, I wanna be there to witness that -awesome- event!  And help you win, of course!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Think about it:  We grew up in Candlekeep together, we started this saga together, and we get to finish it together.  It’s poetic justice if I’m using that term right.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Besides, I think Gorion would want his stand-in to help you finish what you started, or what Bhaal started, so long ago.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Whatever you choose, kid, it’s been an honor and a pleasure being your friend and battle brother.  Lemme know when you’re ready.
<END DIALOG.>
Party has killed the Ravager - Imoen is in the Pocket Plane (AR4500)
IMOEN: <PRO_BROTHERSISTER>, I’m glad that’s over.  I guess we beat that evil monster version of us, huh?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: Do you think beating Melissan and her minions will be worse than that?
<Pick one.>
Worse?  Probably, Imoen.  After all, Melissan is like the queen bitch of the universe right now.
IMOEN: <CHARNAME>, it hurts to think you’re right, that someone who isn’t a god can just go on a murdering spree and -become- a god!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: No bedtime story from Gorion or Puffgutts ever prepared me for this, but I know you saved me from Irenicus and Spellhold to finish what Gorion wanted for us back in Candlekeep.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: I know we can do it, and not just because Bhaal’s essence is alive and well in us!  We’ve been through too much to quit now!
I don’t want to say it’ll be worse, but it’ll probably be different.
IMOEN: <Imoen strains to smile.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: So it isn’t just -one- scary monster we didn’t expect, but the scheming -menace- we didn’t expect.  At least I didn’t expect her to be who she was until I was told.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: No bedtime story from Gorion or Puffgutts ever prepared me for this, but I know you saved me from Irenicus and Spellhold to finish what Gorion wanted for us back in Candlekeep.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: I know we can do it, and not just because Bhaal’s essence is alive and well in us!  We’ve been through too much to quit now!
IMOEN: Whatever happens, <PRO_BROTHERSISTER>, I wanna join you as we fulfill our destiny.  Do the thing Gorion would’ve wanted us to do.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: I know you might wanna leave me out of this because the fate of the universe is waiting for us to survive and beat Melissan, but I don’t like the thought of me being stuck somewhere worrying about you.  Irenicus called you the strongest of the Bhaalspawn, and I think he was right for a change!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Irenicus is also on the same map (AR4500).>
IRENICUS: That is an accurate assessment of <CHARNAME>’s abilities, ignoring Melissan’s recent grab for power.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<Regardless of Irenicus’s presence.>
IMOEN: Besides, you didn’t save me from Spellhold just to keep me in reserve, right?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: Just... let me know what’s going on.  I better say goodbye to Cespenar.  He’s cute and the closest thing we have to a pet around here.  And... I’m gonna need a hug.
I’m sorry, sis, but I’m not in a hugging mood right now.  Ask someone else.
IMOEN: <Imoen smiles.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: I know, I know.  Busy preparing for your date with destiny and ensuring we win!  I don’t wanna break your concentration!
You convinced me.  Here, have a hug!
IMOEN: <Imoen sighs and smiles as you two embrace.  A tear falls down her cheek.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<CHARNAME>: <Memories of you two in Candlekeep flood back to you - childhood games, befriending Winthrop, talking with dignitaries, and even being framed.  Everything there just seems so small, so far away, and so insignificant now.  Gorion made that decision for you to leave so long ago, and there’s no going back to a quieter lifestyle.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: Alright, <PRO_BROTHERSISTER>, let’s save the world, or at least what’s left of it!
<END DIALOG.>
No hugs from me now.  I have important plans to make.
IMOEN: <Imoen sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: Fine.  I’ll ask someone else.  Maybe I can tickle Cespenar and feel better.
<END DIALOG.>
You convinced me.  Here, have a hug!
IMOEN: <Imoen sighs and smiles as you two embrace.  A tear falls down her cheek.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<CHARNAME>: <Memories of you two in Candlekeep flood back to you - childhood games, befriending Winthrop, talking with dignitaries, learning from Gorion, sharing a drink with Hull, and even being framed.  Everything there just seems so small, so far away, and so insignificant now.  Gorion made that decision for you to leave so long ago, and there’s no going back to a quieter lifestyle.  Your journey has shaped you in ways that nothing else can.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: Alright, <PRO_BROTHERSISTER>, let’s save the world, or at least what’s left of it!
<END DIALOG.>
Party has killed the Ravager - Sarevok is in the Pocket Plane (AR4500)
SAREVOK: So, <PRO_BROTHERSISTER>, you now know from experience what an aspect of our father is like.  It is cruel, exacting, and twisted in its appearance!
Sarevok, do you tell me this to mock me?
SAREVOK: Not at all.  I have seen the horrors of this Ravager in visions and dreams while the essence of Bhaal was within me.  It is a more deadly version of your Slayer form.
Is this what Bhaal is really like?
SAREVOK: He normally looks different, <PRO_BROTHERSISTER>, but his nature is at least as cruel.
Is this what you wanted to become?
SAREVOK: At one time, I did.  As a son of the Lord of Murder, there was only war in my soul.  Massacre on a godly scale would get our father’s attention and bring him back to have him lovingly or dutifully welcome me into his place.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SAREVOK: Now, dear <PRO_BROTHERSISTER>, we seek to stop another from doing the same.
What do you advise?
SAREVOK: <PRO_BROTHERSISTER>, I know what it’s like to wage war then -lose- that war.  For what felt like an eternity, I lost everything when I lost to you under Baldur’s Gate.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SAREVOK: Hope, determination, and sheer -hatred- kept me going while I was in that limbo-like state.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SAREVOK: But I know this:  It is time to embrace your -birthright- and -destroy- this usurper to the Throne of Bhaal!
You sound like you’re speaking from experience, then.
SAREVOK: History is repeating, <PRO_BROTHERSITER>.  Another is trying to take our father’s throne.
Did that Ravager remind you of me?
SAREVOK: The -savagery- and -cunning- of that Ravager reminded me of you -all too well-, <PRO_BROTHERSISTER>.
This trial is over.  I have other things to do before facing my destiny at the Throne of Bhaal.
SAREVOK: <PRO_BROTHERSISTER>, I -knew- this day would come.  After all, I helped bring it forth.  For years, I assumed -I- would be the last Bhaalspawn, but fate and you had other plans.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SAREVOK: My dear <PRO_BROTHERSISTER>, I would like nothing more than to join you to destroy this usurper to our father’s throne and finish what I started!
You talk big and have some experience with this, but are you ready to die for this cause?
SAREVOK: I have already died once by your hand and have no desire to die again!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SAREVOK: But I know what this war entails.  I know what it’s like to be performing the rituals to attract Bhaal’s attention and attempt ascension.  I know the risks and chose to take them, for the glory of the reward is great!
If you -do- die, then what?
SAREVOK: Know this, <PRO_BROTHERSISTER>:  I -will- be remembered for -ages- to come because of the chaos I’ve sown in my life and how I clawed my way back to the land of the living!  I have -far- outdone my fellow Bhaalspawn, and I am -proud- of my accomplishments!
If I choose you to accompany me to unseat this usurper, you’ll know.
SAREVOK: Good, <PRO_BROTHERSISTER>.  I eagerly await your word!
<END DIALOG.>
Party has killed the Ravager - Trinden is in the Pocket Plane (AR4500)
TRINDEN: What were the most important things you learned from defeating this dark reflection of yourself?
Trinden, very importantly, that I -could- win against this thing meant to kill me!
TRINDEN: Agreed.  A strong ego built upon a strong, rightful foundation of confidence is -instrumental- to success!
This fight isn’t yet over.  I or we have some loose ends to tie up.
TRINDEN: I assume that death-obsessed Melissan is a formidable opponent.  Stealing the power of a god seems like an ability for some of the most gifted of casters.
Or the most scheming of bastards.
TRINDEN: -Exactly.-
I never asked for this legacy, for this life where death surrounds me what seems like every day!
TRINDEN: We are born onto a battlefield by a decision not our own.  How we handle this life, however, -is- our decision.
In this world, even gods have flaws.
TRINDEN: That is... unfortunate.  At present, I have no practical solution; however, I offer you my encouragement.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: We =know- you can succeed as a deity!  That is why you are -here- and how you were able to survive this long despite your abundant opposition.
[If the player hasn’t chosen any of the above dialog options] Let’s go, Trinden.  We’ve talked enough for now.
TRINDEN: No.  I am here to make you -think.-  Tell me your thoughts before we continue.
[If the player hasn’t chosen any of the above dialog options] Let’s go, Trinden.  We’ve talked enough for now.
TRINDEN: Very well.  When it comes time to face Melissan, I wish to join you.  Fighting gods and those who usurp their power is wise training for one of my stature.
I will consider taking you.  I may need to face her alone.
TRINDEN: I understand that I am a -guest- on this plane and in your life at present.  Let me know when you are certain.
<END DIALOG.>
Party has killed the Ravager - Volo is in the party
VOLO: So, sweet Melissan was manipulating us the entire time?  I should’ve known!  The quiet ones are usually trouble.  That’s why I talk so much!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Oh, yes, we helped beat your dark side.  I’m glad -that’s- been purged from you!  I’m glad that my troubles haven’t manifested in such a monstrous form!
Don’t be so sure, Volo!  Bhaal is still my father!
VOLO: I was -hoping- you wouldn’t say that!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: But I -strongly- suspect that whatever happens, we’ll see this through to the end!  I’ve had a knack for surviving and even -thriving- in improbable situations!
Volo, as a storyteller, how do you see this story ending?
VOLO: Since we’re so close to the end I think it’s fair to predict that you being the -star- of the Bhaalspawn Saga will survive and even -thrive- after your most -magnificent- victory over Melissan!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: And as I’ve assured you before, I’ve had a way of surviving no matter the circumstances.  It’s as if my fate were continually written by a loving deity.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: After that?  Maybe you take Bhaal’s place, or become a new deity yourself.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: But if you somehow -lose?-  Well, Bhaal is ready to return!  Maybe I’ll need to team up with Elminster and fight Bhaal in person - not that I would be looking -forward- to such an endeavor!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Just know this, it’s as if you’re in a play.  No matter what the script says, the actors can improvise!  Choose what you want to happen and make it so, my friend!
One pressing question, Volo:  Are you truly a beacon of bad luck?
VOLO: <Volo sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: I -refuse- to believe that my mere -presence- should be cause for concern to anyone except perhaps my enemies!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: A more -plausible- explanation is that I am drama personified, or I am somehow guarded by a deity who believes it fitting to ensure my life plays out this way!
Destiny awaits!  Onward, Volo!
VOLO: Oh, it most certainly does, though I would -love- to accompany you in this fight against Melissan!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: This is a once in a lifetime event - if that - and I would -love- to be able to accurately record it for -ages- to come!  Elminster would be -especially- pleased with an in-person account of the -glorious- battling we are about to do!
Volo, Volo, don’t you trust my ability to tell you what happened after the fact?
VOLO: No, and not because I claim you’re an unreliable narrator!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: The simple matter is that you may ascend to divinity and we may never meet again after this!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Besides, it’s easier to describe the sights and sounds from someone so well-versed in this!
I understand, Volo.
VOLO: You understand?  Good!  Then please take me with you for this final battle, your finest hour, your swan song - whatever that means!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Let me know when you’re ready.  I’ll handle my preparations until then.
<END DIALOG.>
ToB: POCKET PLANE TRIALS
First Meeting the Solar in Hell
SOLAR: Our own servant, who was the mortal Alaundo, spoke the truths that became prophecy.  It tells of your coming and of all the others who are the progeny of Bhaal.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Oh, yes.  I listened to those chanters in Candlekeep!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I -told- ya so.
SOLAR: I shall see you soon.  Until then, hold your heart close and know that you are not alone.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Yeah!  I am here with you.  In Hell.  AGAIN.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Well, my friend!  Let us be of good cheer knowing we have heavenly help, even in this most hostile time!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull sighs.>  <END DIALOG WITH HULL, VOLO, AND THE SOLAR.>
Meeting Sarevok in Hell
<This dialog is in a below section: “ToB: MEETING SAREVOK THE MIGHTY FOR THE FIRST TIME FOR RECRUITMENT.“>
Retribution Trial (#1): Jon Irenicus Appears
<If Hull/Volo is in the party and Jon Irenicus appears from Ascension or SCS.>
VOLO: Irenicus?  Here?  What an unexpected surprise!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You again?!  Why can’t you just -stay dead?!-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull and Trinden are in the Pocket Plane.>
TRINDEN: This is what happens when resurrections are priced too cheaply.
Retribution Trial Won (#1): Gavid’s Dialog
GAVID: Or is there?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: There’d -better- be!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Oh, my dead peddler of information:  Where there’s life, there’s war!
<CONTINUE SCENE.>
Possibilities Trial (#2): Baeloth/Hull/Trinden/Volo is in the Party - <CHARNAME>’s double appears
HULL: Kid, there’s -another- one of you?!  Do you have a twin?!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<CHARNAME>: Look at me, <CHARNAME>.  See yourself as you might have been had Gorion taken Sarevok instead of you... had your path taken a different turn.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: A painful look into the possibilities.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Uh oh.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: A mirror match!  What temporal trickiness is this trouble?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Ah, the perils of dwelling on what -could- have been!  Surely we shall overcome them!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<CONTINUE SCENE.>
Doubts Trial (#3): Baeloth/Hull/Trinden/Volo is in the Party - <CHARNAME>’s projection appears
<CHARNAME>: Do you wish to keep fighting the same endless battle against the nature you were born with?  Think, for a moment, at how much you have changed since that fateful day in Candlekeep.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: My, how things have changed!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, it’s like your projection’s talkin’ to you as much as it’s talkin’ to me!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: What an -exciting- inciting incident!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: I cultivated you to be a champion!  I brought out your birthright!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<CONTINUE SCENE.>
Doubts Trial (#3): Hull is in the Party - after fight
<Pick one.>
Hull, you seemed to be swept up in the drama my projection made.  What was that about?
HULL: Something made me think, kid.  Knowing what I know now, would I -want- to go back to Candlekeep and just keep living as a ‘normal’ person?  Would I want to -try- to warn Gorion about what would happen if he rushed out that Candlekeep gate?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: It hurts me to say this, kid, because it sounds selfish, but I... am glad we got to travel the world and the planes together!  This only happened -because- Gorion died and I tried replacing him, kid.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I’m not tryin’ to boast that Gorion was a pain and that I’m -glad- he’s dead, but... he -knew- he was gonna die soon anyway and chose to die like a champ!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Then I... I chose to take over.  Erasing that means I’d probably still be starin’ at walls in Candlekeep, waiting for something -grand- to happen!  <END DIALOG.>
Hull, this isn’t like you.  What happened?
HULL: The thought of going back, making it so none of this journey ever happened to any of us...
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Let’s just say I’ve been thinking about this sorta thing along our way.  After all, it’s been a -long- way!  <END DIALOG.>
Cyric Trial (#4): Baeloth/Hull/Trinden/Volo is in the Party - <CHARNAME>’s projection appears
CYRIC: But first... let’s make sure we’re not bothered by your so-called friends.  This is a private matter.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Hey!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: But I -must- know!  -History- must know!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: The new Lord of Murder in person?  Any openings for a new battlemaster?  Hmm?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: I take offense.  At least this shall end soon!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<CONTINUE SCENE.>
Cyric Trial (#4): Baeloth/Hull/Trinden/Volo is in the Party - after Cyric dialog but before fight
VOLO: I -think- I understood the gestures and body language by observing you through the barrier.  It seemed Cyric wanted to determine if you were a threat.
How could you tell?
VOLO: Cyric -hated- Bhaal, but was the next in line to assume Bhaal’s portfolio.  So much bickering among the gods.  It just makes sense that Cyric would be ‘sizing you up,’ so to speak.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: Intimidation, I see, and on a godly scale.  How... quaint.
TRINDEN: I know little of this Cyric figure, but I can already determine he wants you dead or working for him.  He’s a talker and a schemer like myself, though with more... experience.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: So, my special associate:  What did Cyric say about wanting to work together?
Nothing, Baeloth.  He was only interested in my potential threat to him.
BAELOTH: Oh, confound it!  (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Well, I suppose my portfolio of war needs work.  Maybe I need to absorb the essence of a god.  Not you, of course.  That might be -too- much meddling for this whole affair, and I’m not sure Bhaal would be any better of a bargain.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, what was that about?  I got the feeling that guy warped me out of the room so he could be like, “Shh!  Adults are talking!”
<Pick one.>
If by ‘adults’ you mean ‘gods,’ then yes.
HULL: So, what’s this mad god Cyric want with you?
How did you know it was Cyric?
HULL: Candlekeep, kid.  We got enough ranting, raving followers who wanted access to his reading materials.
I think he wanted to flaunt his position.
HULL: Here?  Now?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: This place ain’t my first choice, but I’m not Cyric!
He mentioned the overgod Ao was unusually interested in this Bhaalspawn saga.  I don’t know why.
HULL: <Hull shrugs.>
He wanted to know how scared he should be of me.
HULL: <Hull stares at <CHARNAME> in awe.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: The god of madness scared of -you?-  That’s news!
He -is- the current Lord of Murder.  He got the position when Bhaal died.
HULL: Ah, a rival then.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Last I checked, there were fewer good gods than not good gods in the realms.
[If the player didn’t choose at least one of the previous dialog options] That’s enough talk for now.
HULL: Kid, no.  It isn’t.  I may not be a god, but I’m your friend, your ally, your protector.  Tell me.  <Show the previous dialog options and force the player to pick at least one before leaving.>
[If the player chose at least one of the previous dialog options] That’s enough talk for now.
HULL: Alright, kid.  Expect tricks, traps, and maybe some treasure!  <END DIALOG.>
Ravager Trial (#5): Baeloth/Hull/Trinden/Volo is in the Party - before fight
RAVAGER: But you will not defeat me.  For I am the Ravager.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Oh, yes we will.  Don’t you know the protagonist of a story always wins?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: I could talk back but -clearly- this thing is not programmed to -listen!-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Time to kill your inner demon!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Oh, I’ve heard that line -so many times- I lost count!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Let the battle begin! (from here)   <END DIALOG.>
Party has killed the Ravager (#5) - Hull is in the party
HULL: Kid... soon this is all gonna be over.  Ravager form or not, Slayer form or not, that bitch Amelyssan is gonna die, die, DIE!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I already have my taunt ready for her!
Taunt?  Let me hear it!
HULL: Not yet, kid.  Take you with me to the final battle and I’ll let ya hear it.
What happens if I don’t take you with me to this final battle?
HULL: Kid, I’ve known you since -before- you were this famous Bhaalspawn!  I -really- do wanna join you as we turn this traitorous death worshiper into a puddle!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull sighs, tears falling down his face.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, godchild, whatever I should call ya, if you don’t pick me, well, I know it’s because you think someone else would be a better fit.  I’ll talk with the solar about warping me back to Candlekeep.  I’ll write your biography as best I can, assuming the world survives your awesomeness!
What happens if I take you with me to this final battle?
HULL: Kid, you honor me!  I’ll be like your younger, sorta-Gorion helping guard you and beat her down.  And any crazy minions she calls forth, because if you’re a god, you just have someone else do it.  Right?
Hull, there’s the -very real possibility- that you or I will die in this fight or worse!  We’re facing someone with most the power of the God of Murder at her disposal!  She might be using Imprisonment, soul trapping, disintegration, or worse!  Are you ready to go -all the way?-
HULL: Kid, look at me!  Look at you!  Look at us!  We’re here, in your little corner of Hell!  Your heritage lets you call this place home!  We aren’t in Candlekeep anymore, kid!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: When I first came here and learned you were in charge, I was freaked out, sure, but I was impressed!  Sure, this place is kinda small, and, well, Hell, but it shows just how powerful -you- are!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: We’ve helped each other for years now, ever since our Candlekeep days.  Back then, you got me odda trouble for being drunk or hung over when I was scheduled to start my shift.  I helped you by getting you lunch or surprising you with small presents.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Now we’re in the big leagues!  The god leagues!  Or at least pretty close!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: We’re saving each other from abstract manifestations of evil from your blood, as if you needed a reminder.  Next on the schedule is for us to finish our preparations and kill someone who’s effectively a god!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: So, yes, I am ready to go -all the way.-  Gorion was when he died like a champ defending you outside Candlekeep.  I plan for us to live long, healthy, prosperous lives after we turn Amelyssan’s body into a river of shit!
Hull, what if stopping Amelyssan doesn’t actually finish the fight?
HULL: Then we keep going until it’s done.  And maybe longer!
If I’m given the choice to ascend to divinity, should I take it?
HULL: If ascending turns you into an evil deity, don’t.  Otherwise, go for it!
It’s time we finish the fight.  Hull, you’ll know my decision soon enough.
HULL: Whatever happens, kid, thank you for helping me to be the man I became.  I’m still not proud of all of it, and there are flaws I’d rather not have, but I’ve gone from staring at walls in Candlekeep, basically wasting my life away - to doing things that even Elminster himself would care about!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: We’re works in progress, kid.  All of us.  We’re farther along and better off now than years ago in that gilded cage.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull winks at <CHARNAME> and smiles, relieved.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, I know that look.  I -know- you have something you wanna tell me before we do some god slayin’.  What is it?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull raises his eyebrows and looks you squarely in the eyes.>
<Pick one.>
Hull, thank you again for your help.  Gorion would be proud.
HULL: <Tears fall from Hull’s face.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, you just -know- how to get to me!  Thank you for that!  <END DIALOG.>
Hull, you’re a free man.  You aren’t Gorion.  You can’t -be- Gorion!  You don’t owe Gorion anything.  You don’t owe me anything.  Decide who -Hull- is and be -him,- even if someone else would disagree - like Gorion or me!
HULL: <Hull sighs and smiles.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: What would Hull do, huh?  Trying to make me my own man, huh?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Well, kid, good on you for that!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Hull would -definitely- wanna kill Amelyssan the goddess-wannabe with you then write about it in a book!
Hull, you did pretty well for yourself for a drunkard.
HULL: <Hull snickers and winks.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Yeah.  Most drunks who pick fights get trounced by some guy at a bar or the local guards.  It’s rare that a drunk lives on to fight someone who thinks she’s a deity.  <END SCENE.>
Start planning the victory party.  If I win, you’re buying!
HULL: <Hull smirks.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You wanna spend your reward on ale and whores?
HULL: That’s fair, kid.
Ale and whores?  What?
HULL: Many years ago, kid, I heard some dwarf mutter that he “spent his reward on ale and whores.”  I was never sure -what- reward.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Don’t get me started on some other guy who kept muttering, “If it weren’t for my horse, I would have never gotten my education.”  It’s better to just focus elsewhere.
Yes to the drinks, no to the whores.
HULL: We can do a tour of all the best places to drink until we’re tired of it!
Yes to the whores, no to the drinks.
HULL: I was only in it for the drinks, kid.  If you want the whores, I’m pretty sure we can make arrangements.  Just be careful about making more Bhaalspawn!
Let’s stop focusing on ale and whores.
HULL: Sure thing, kid.  We’ll talk more after you win.  <END DIALOG.>
Must you be so fascinated by me?
HULL: <Hull sighs and shakes his head.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Ever since Candlekeep, I knew you were -special-, kid.  Not godspawn special, but there was just something... about ya.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Then you became the famous Hero of Baldur’s Gate, beat Irenicus in Hell, and now we’re here!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: In Candlekeep, not much interesting stuff happened, but since we left, it’s been like nonstop drama!  <END DIALOG.>
Hull, if you were in my position, what would you do?
HULL: <Hull strokes his chin for a moment as he ponders.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You asked for it!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I think Amelyssan’s just gonna wait for us at our final destination.  I’d take the time I needed to ensure my friends and I were ready to go.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Maybe this means we take a research trip to Candlekeep or go shopping or organize our stuff, because this could very well be a -one way trip!-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But I also know that we can’t just wait forever, kid.  Death, destruction, disintegration, despair, and worse will hurt the land if we take -too- long.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And I’d be -very- sure I was on good terms with my patron deity, just in case we were gonna meet soon!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I’d also send a letter to Candlekeep saying I was off to fight Amelyssan and fulfill my destiny.  I might never come back!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull winks at <CHARNAME>.>  <END DIALOG.>
Hull, what happens if I lose, and not just in the theoretical sense of Bhaal returning?
HULL: I think Elminster himself would need to get involved to turn Amelyssan into a puddle!  From what I heard, even the -gods- don’t want Bhaal back, so they might smite things right!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But IF that happens, and that’s a big IF considering how powerful we are, you went down fighting and doing your best to win!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: It’s no longer your problem.  I think.  <END DIALOG.>
Hull, -please- don’t get drunk before the final battle!
HULL: <Hull blinks.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You -really- thought I was gonna get wasted and miss my chance to save the world?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Oh, -please!-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I’m saving -that- for the victory party!  <END DIALOG.>
ToB: FINAL BATTLE
Arriving at the Throne with Baeloth/Hull/Trinden/Volo in the Party - No Ascension
AMELYSSAN: But it doesn’t matter, in the long run.  You’ve served me well enough... and now it is time for your essence to be added back to my power.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Volo on the same map (AR6200).>
VOLO: Today is a day that shall go down in history!  The end of the Bhaalspawn Saga is at hand!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AMELYSSAN: Oh, the ever-dramatic -Volo- is with us?  Your death today will be no exaggeration!  I’ll ensure your dear -Elminster- knows.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: And the antagonist boasts of her prowess before an audience!  How typical!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AMELYSSAN: When I kill you, Volo, I’ll be doing the whole -world- a favor!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is on the same map (AR6200).>
HULL: Amelyssan the Black-Hearted!  You think you’re a god?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AMELYSSAN: <Amelyssan snorts at Hull.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Today is your LAST DAY to be GOD!  It’s for your own good, missy!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AMELYSSAN: I look forward to your torment, Hull, but you waste my time.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Trinden is on the same map (AR6200).>
AMELYSSAN: Ah, Trinden!  The one who was sent here to learn to be a god?  What a -wonderful- education this will be!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: -You- have been a masterful schemer.  I thank you for that!  You were almost as good as -my- family!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AMELYSSAN: Oh, such arrogance!  You cast your lot with the losing side, Trinden!  How... unfortunate.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: You project your fear of failure onto me?  I fully reject that and you, failed schemer!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Baeloth is on the same map (AR6200).>
AMELYSSAN: Baeloth the announcer is here.  At least entertain us one last time.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Come one, come all!  See the cream of the Sword Coast's combatant crop!  Witness the brilliant and bizarre battles in the Black Pits of the one and only Baeloth the Entertainer!
<CONTINUE SCENE.>
Arriving at the Throne with Baeloth/Hull/Trinden/Volo in the Party - With Ascension
<NOTE: The new lines for Amelyssan and Baeloth/Hull/Trinden/Volo in the dialog are the same as without Ascension, but also add the stuff below.>
AMELYSSAN: Of course, if you truly desire a demonstration of my influence over the essence, that can be provided as well. It seems you've misplaced your darling little Imoen, haven't you? But her essence is easy enough to command.  Let's see what she has to say, shall we?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Uh oh!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Oh, what is it now?
IRENICUS: Indeed.  We meet once again.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: I am... not entirely surprised.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull sighs and shakes his head in disbelief.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Bodhi offers to join the party.>
HULL: Bodhi wants to -help- us?  Normally I’d be against it, but I’ll take all the help we can get here!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AMELYSSAN: What--?  Mortal?  No, it can’t be!  I am nearly mortal once again!  I have lost too much power!  You shall pay for that!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I know -you- are, but what am I?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Ooh!  That felt good! (from AoN: Baeloth sound set)
<CONTINUE SCENE.>
After Beating Amelyssan with Baeloth/Hull/Trinden/Volo in the party
<If Baeloth is on the same map (AR6200).>
BAELOTH: Fistfuls of flaming finality! (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: We do wonderful work.  I’m impressed! (from here)
No amazingly long alliterations now that she’s dead and Bhaal’s divine spot is vacant?
BAELOTH: Oh, I suppose we’ll need a replacement. (from here)
Alright.  I get it.  You’re nudging me toward taking her place.
BAELOTH: Control and command the blessing Big Daddy Bhaal bestowed you or retire a runt.  Ascend or regret it, <CHARNAME>.  You -know- that’s the right way!
<If Trinden is on the same map (AR6200).>
TRINDEN: Remember, -this- is how it feels to make -history!-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: And you, <CHARNAME>, have done me well by the assistance of your tutelage.  I shall consider these lessons on my home plane.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: Just remember this battle proves one point from Trinden’s Trinity:  Violence solves -everything.-
What?  No time to talk now?
TRINDEN: We both know this is -your- moment.  Great deliberation would denigrate this time.  I can compile and send you a detailed report later -if- you are so inclined.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Volo is on the same map (AR6200).>
VOLO: That crazed priestess-turned-goddess is dead!  What an achievement that is!  Good work, team!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Now, I need time to record this -momentous- occasion!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull on the same map (AR6200).>
HULL: <singing> Ding, dong the bitch is dead!  Which old bitch?  The wicked bitch!  Ding, dong the wicked bitch is deaaaaad!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, I’m glad we did this.  Together.  Like friends.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Now you have a choice to make and I’m gonna help you make it!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If CHARNAME doesn’t qualify to become an evil deity.>
HULL: Kid, if you wanna live forever as a god and not be evil, that’s fine by me.  Part of me hopes you’ll ascend and help me live forever so we can be forever friends, adventurers, and maybe even drinking buddies!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But we all know it’s your choice.
<If CHARNAME qualifies to become an evil deity.>
HULL: Kid, -please- don’t ascend!  There’s enough evil in the world!  Don’t make more!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Become an evil god and someone’s gonna take you out like we did with that downed puppet mistress over there!  Even Bhaal was killed!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SOLAR: As you wish, though it brings me no pleasure to unleash such an evil onto the cosmos.  You are wicked, Bhaalspawn, and your time as a power will be a difficult one, I swear.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Hang on there, Solar.  This wannabe evil deity and I have one last score to settle.
Hull, what are you doing?  This is -my choice!-  Didn’t you say so yourself?
HULL: <Hull’s weary eyes become determined as he stares at <CHARNAME>.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Gorion’s dead and Elminster ain’t here to interfere.  The gods have gone silent, so it seems -I- get to act like Hull for a change!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: So, what would Hull do?  What -would- Hull do?  He’d prevent the ascension of more evil!  Prevent -you- from having to be a stain on the planes as the next wannabe Lord of Murder!
What do you propose?
HULL: Drop your plans for ascension -now!-  Keep your mortality and we can stay friends if you want.  Or I can find a place far, -far- away from you.  We can handle that later.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Paladin or not, the morally right thing to do is to stop -you- from playing god or -being- god.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: All the destruction from the Bhaalspawn essence wreaking havoc across the realms and the planes was because whatever Daddy Bhaal gave you, he intended for evil.
And if I refuse?
HULL: Then I kill you and let this death essence dissolve.  -That’s- what Hull would do.  The planes can thank me later.
Murderer!  Hypocrite!
HULL: It’s only a little violence to stop a -lot- of violence later.  I can live with it.  Can -you?-
Hull, I’m a god and you’re not.  Do you -really- think you can stand up against me?
HULL: Kid, I know more about you than you realize.  God or not, you helped me become more powerful than I ever imagined back in Candlekeep!  Look how we’ve grown because of you!
And if I accept?
HULL: You become a mortal, and we can be friends.  Maybe I’ll be your adopted big bro!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Besides, we got a victory party to attend!  I’m buying!
Victory party where?
HULL: The planes are open to us.  Maybe hit up Elysium.  I heard it’s especially radiant around this time.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And of -course- we’re gonna go back and visit Candlekeep!  I wanna know how many drinks it takes to turn those old scribes and scholars into piss-ridden idiots!  -Especially- that ass Ulraunt!
How much do you -want- to fight me?
HULL: Only as much as you want to be an evil deity, kid.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I’d rather we get along as friends, but power changes things.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Trinden also is on the same map (AR6200).>
TRINDEN: Power does not change a man.  Power merely shows you who he -really- is.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: That too.
What happens if you ‘win?’  Wouldn’t killing me revive Bhaal anyway?
SOLAR: <CHARNAME>, in the light of recent events, there is at least one more Bhaalspawn that has not been involved in this war.  Hull, <CHARNAME>’s death would not return the former Lord of Murder to life.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: It doesn’t get more official than -that!-
Hull, aren’t you concerned about losing and, therefore, -dying- or -worse?-
HULL: <Hull looks <CHARNAME> straight in the eyes.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: No.  Gorion died like a man to protect Candlekeep, you, me, and the world from another mad Bhaalspawn wanting to revive the Lord of Murder.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Sarevok is on the same map (AR6200).>
HULL: <Hull glances at Sarevok.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<Regardless of Sarevok’s presence.>
HULL: I, Hull, will do the same if I must!
Hull, you and what army?
HULL: <Hull grins at <CHARNAME>.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, I am -so- glad you asked!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Who’s with me on stopping this wannabe Lord of Murder?  This shall be our -final- battle, and a moment to be remembered in history -forever!-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Solar?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SOLAR: I am to remain an impartial arbiter.  I cannot.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Balthazar on the same map (AR6200)>
HULL: Balthazar, do you still want to get rid of this evil essence?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BALTHAZAR: I do.  It is nothing personal, <CHARNAME>.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Khalid from Khalid in BGII or from Turnabout is on the same map (AR6200) and isn’t romancing CHARNAME>
HULL: Khalid, will you help me help the Harpers by killing a renegade Bhaalspawn?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KHALID: <CHARNAME>, I- I am sorry.  My Harper’s oath is to pr- pr- protect this world and its people.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Jaheira is on the same map (AR6200) and isn’t romancing CHARNAME>
HULL: Jaheira, ready to fulfill your duty as a Harper and slay this evil?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
JAHEIRA: My condolences, <CHARNAME>.
<If Jaheira is on the same map (AR6200) and IS romancing CHARNAME>
HULL: Jaheira, ready to fulfill your duty as a Harper and slay this evil?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
JAHEIRA: Hull... I... I cannot.  My love for <PRO_HIMHER> is too great.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
<If Ajantis is in the party>
HULL: Ajantis, you were ever eager to smite evil.  Ready to down another godling?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AJANTIS: <CHARNAME>, you have chosen poorly and -must- be slain!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Anomen is on the same map (AR6200) and isn’t romancing CHARNAME>
HULL: What about you, Anomen?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ANOMEN: <CHARNAME>, what kind of knight would I be if I stayed silent amidst the wrongs you were about to commit?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Anomen also failed his knighthood test.>
ANOMEN: By slaying -you-, I am -sure- the order would reconsider my admission!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Anomen is on the same map (AR6200) and IS romancing CHARNAME>
HULL: What about you, Anomen?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ANOMEN: <CHARNAME>, what kind of knight would I be if I stayed silent amidst the wrongs you were about to commit, even if you were my love?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Anomen also failed his knighthood test.>
ANOMEN: By slaying -you-, I am -sure- the order would reconsider my admission!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<Regardless of Anomen’s status.>
ANOMEN: Regardless, <CHARNAME>, I have no desire for your tainted love.  My heart will weep and sing for you no more!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Keldorn is in on the same map (AR6200) and isn’t romancing CHARNAME>
HULL: What about you, Keldorn?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KELDORN: <CHARNAME>, somehow I thought my days of fighting would have ended, and yet here we are with one of the greatest evils of our day before us - you!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Keldorn is on the same map (AR6200) and IS romancing CHARNAME>
HULL: What about you, Keldorn?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KELDORN: <CHARNAME>, somehow I thought my days of fighting would have ended, and yet here we are with one of the greatest evils of our day before us - you!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KELDORN: There can be no love between a paladin and a being of such pure evil!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Rasaad is in on the same map (AR6200) and isn’t romancing CHARNAME>
HULL: Rasaad, care to take on a wannabe god?  I think you’re strong enough now!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
RASAAD: <CHARNAME>, I assure you this is because of your foolish decision to walk the paths of darkness!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Rasaad is in on the same map (AR6200) and IS romancing CHARNAME>
HULL: Rasaad, care to take on a wannabe god?  I think you’re strong enough now!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
RASAAD: <CHARNAME>, I assure you this is because of your foolish decision to walk the paths of darkness!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
RASAAD: I apologize for breaking your heart on such notice, but you would have broken mine -far- worse.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Aerie is in on the same map (AR6200) and isn’t romancing CHARNAME>
HULL: Aerie, wings or not, here’s your chance to do another nice thing to the world.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AERIE: I... I will.  For the good of my kind, wings or not!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Aerie is on the same map (AR6200) and IS romancing CHARNAME>
HULL: Aerie, wings or not, here’s your chance to do another nice thing to the world.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AERIE: I... I can’t.  <CHARNAME> is my true love and I must defend <PRO_HIMHER>!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Worth a shot.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Quayle from here or here is on the same map (AR6200) AND Aerie is on the same map AND Aerie has agreed NOT to fight CHARNAME>
HULL: Quayle, the -smart- thing to do would be to stop the ascension of an evil deity!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
QUAYLE: Why, yes, but the SMARTER thing to do would be to side with my girl Aerie, here.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AERIE: Thank you, uncle Quayle!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Your family is -weird.-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Quayle from here or here is on the same map (AR6200) AND Aerie is on the same map AND Aerie has agreed to fight CHARNAME>
HULL: Quayle, the -smart- thing to do would be to stop the ascension of an evil deity!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
QUAYLE: Why, yes, but the SMARTER thing to do would be to side with my girl Aerie, here.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AERIE: Didn’t you hear me?  I’m already fighting to stop <PRO_HIMHER>!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
QUAYLE: Oh, you are?  Good!  Let’s fight together and stop this madness!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Your family is -weird.-  I’m glad to have ya, though.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Quayle from here or here is on the same map (AR6200) AND Aerie is NOT on the same map>
HULL: Quayle, the -smart- thing to do would be to stop the ascension of an evil deity!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
QUAYLE: Only the truly inept would resort to such evil as this! I'll not stand much more! (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-
HULL: Welcome aboard!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Mazzy is in on the same map (AR6200) and is Good-aligned>
HULL: Mazzy, if you wanna act like a paladin, here’s your chance to stop an evil deity from ascending!  Maybe Keldorn’s order would let you in if you succeeded!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
MAZZY: <CHARNAME>, what a pity it is for you to reveal your true colors at this time!  For justice!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Mazzy is in on the same map (AR6200) and is NOT Good-aligned>
HULL: Mazzy, if you wanna act like a paladin, here’s your chance to stop an evil deity from ascending!  Maybe Keldorn’s order would let you in if you succeeded!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
MAZZY: This... is not my score to settle.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Oh, come ON, girl!  I thought you were better than -that!-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Valygar is in the party>
HULL: Valygar, this is one time when it’s -very wise- to be suspicious of the -evil- magic that’s afoot!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VALYGAR: Aye, Hull, and if I did not trust you as I did, I would be inclined to believe you were using me for your own ends.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VALYGAR: <CHARNAME>, our friendship is ended if you are serious about claiming that mantle as an evil deity!  I’ll not consort with such a wicked being, nor allow such wickedness to exist so easily! 
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Imoen is in the party>
HULL: Imoen...
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: Hull, I know what you’re about to ask, and...
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: <CHARNAME>, my <PRO_BROTHERSISTER>, I can’t let you ransack the planes and soul suck anyone else, like with what happened to me!  Too much suffering happened in the world simply because we were born with a taint we never -wanted-, and never knew about until it was too late!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: You cared for me and got me odda Spellhold.  I’m doing this because I care for you to, <PRO_BROTHERSISTER>.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Jan is on the same map (AR6200)>
HULL: Jan, if we win here, it’ll make for a good story!  A true one!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
JAN: Yes, just like my second cousin twice removed Eunice who-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Are you my ally in this fight or not?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
JAN: Well, hm, yes.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Volo is in on the same map (AR6200)>
HULL: Volo, are you ready to make history?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Hull, my condolences, but I’ve already made -enough- history for one day.  I shall observe this -monumental- occasion as it happens!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Besides, -someone- needs to accurately record this -momentous- occasion for posterity!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull snarls at Volo.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Minsc is on the same map (AR6200).>
HULL: Minsc, you’re always into “butt kicking for goodness!”  Time to spread s’more goodness!  Boo can too!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
MINSC: Minsc and Boo are always for the right!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BOO: <Boo squeaks.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
MINSC: <CHARNAME>, Boo apologies that he will have to kill you very brutally now.  There is no better way.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Dynaheir is on the same map (AR6200).>
HULL: Dynaheir, what do you say to our friend here trying to become an evil god?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DYNAHEIR: I cannot abide by this decision!  'Tis idiocy! (from here) 
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DYNAHEIR: I shall play no further role in thy machinations.  Fare thee well. (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: How articulate!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Sarevok is on the same map (AR6200) AND isn’t Evil-aligned>
HULL: Sarevok, I’m hesitant to ask-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SAREVOK: Save your words, Hull.  I am with you.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SAREVOK: My <PRO_BROTHERSISTER>, it seems you never learned the lesson you taught me - that the pursuit of this -vile- and -violent- divinity will lead to -inevitable- ruin!
<If Sarevok is on the same map (AR6200) AND he IS Evil-aligned>
HULL: Sarevok, I’m hesitant to ask-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SAREVOK: Save your words, Hull.  I am unpersuaded.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SAREVOK: My <PRO_BROTHERSISTER>, I wish I could be in your position once more so I could be this god I -so desired!-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I shoulda seen -that- comin’!
<If Haer’Dalis is in the party>
HULL: Haer’Dalis, are you ready to write a play about how we beat two wannabe gods in one day?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I rhymed that time!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HAER’DALIS: Your offer is... tempting, Hull.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HAER’DALIS: It is a deal.  I shall call it, “The Tale of Two Deities.”
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Neera is on the same map (AR6200) and isn’t romancing CHARNAME>
HULL: Neera, are you up for one more fight?  It would make the Red Wizards more likely to respect a wild mage who killed two wannabe gods back-to-back!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NEERA: I am really, really, really, really, really sorry, <CHARNAME>. (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NEERA: I -want- to stay neutral, but, uh, there’s no middle ground here.  So what I -really- meant to say was...
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NEERA: Ooh! You are TERRIBLE.  I hope that when you finally die, you spend eternity being gnawed on by hell hounds. (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Neera is in on the same map (AR6200) and IS romancing CHARNAME>
HULL: Neera, are you up for one more fight?  It would make the Red Wizards more likely to respect a wild mage who killed two wannabe gods back-to-back!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NEERA: <CHARNAME>, I love you.  I... can’t just stand by and hope you win on your own.  Even if you are a child of a murder god.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Love conquering all, I suppose.
<If Baeloth is on the same map (AR6200)>
HULL: Baeloth, what say you to partaking in fighting in the blackest pits yet?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: <Baeloth flashes Hull a wicked smile.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Oh, my dear Hull, I have no intention of fighting.  This superior spectacle is too good to surrender!  I shall remain nearby... as I abstain as an announcer for this arena of the ages!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: He’s a drow.  Why didn't I see that coming?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-
BAELOTH: I can hear you! (from here)
[If the party has a Baeloth’s Silver Coin in inventory] Oh, Baeloth!  I saved my silver coin from you for a time like this!  Time to call in a favor!
BAELOTH: Aye? (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: What a stupendous surprise!  Only a genius like us could have seen it coming!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull sighs and facepalms.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: So, it’s come to this.  Why didn’t -I- see that coming?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: What would you have me do?  Hmm?
<Toss Baeloth’s Silver Coin to Baeloth.>  You know what to do.  Baeloth, join me in stopping this rebellion against me!
BAELOTH: Oh, if you insist.  (from here)
<The party loses Baeloth’s Silver Coin.>
<Toss Baeloth’s Silver Coin to Baeloth.>  Stay out of this fight.  Take this coin as advance payment to ensure that the losing side gets a proper burial on our home plane.
BAELOTH: An intriguing proposal. (from here)
<The party loses Baeloth’s Silver Coin.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, yer acting awfully -civil.-  Doesn’t change my mind.
[If CHARNAME claimed he was Baeloth’s former champion] <Toss Baeloth’s Silver Coin to Baeloth.>  I beat you once, Baeloth.  I’m confident I can do it again at the end of the world.  Consider this the rematch of a lifetime - me fighting you, my former slaver, but now the showman of showmen will be fighting a GOD!  Do you have what it takes?  I don’t think so.
BAELOTH: Your wish will be granted.  I will -personally- face you in combat. (from here)
<The party loses Baeloth’s Silver Coin.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Wow, kid!  You’re even giving me an advantage!  You’re more honorable than I thought!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Or maybe just crazy.  But since it feels alright, I’ll take it - with thanks!
<Toss Baeloth’s Silver Coin to Baeloth.>  Baeloth, let’s put on a spectacle to entertain even the gods!  I challenge you to a fight on Hull’s team here at the end of the world!  Now the showman of showmen will be fighting a GOD!  Do you have what it takes?  I don’t think so.
BAELOTH: Your wish will be granted.  I will -personally- face you in combat. (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Wow, kid!  You’re even giving me an advantage!  You’re more honorable than I thought!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Nalia is on the same map (AR6200) and NOT romancing CHARNAME (Mod 1, Mod 2, Mod 3)>
HULL: Nalia, you cared -so much- for the poor and suffering.  There will be a -lot- more of those soon if we don’t stop this ascension!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NALIA: Well...
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NALIA: Sorry, <CHARNAME>, but Hull’s right!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NALIA: We were friends, but friends don’t let friends become evil deities!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Wilson is on the same map (AR6200)>
HULL: Wilson!  Who’s a good bear?  You are!  You are!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You wanna kill a god?  Yes you do!  Yes you do!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull signals to Wilson to come follow him.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
WILSON: ROARR! (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Grey the Dog is on the same map (AR6200)>
HULL: Grey!  Who’s a good doggy?  You are!  You are!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You wanna kill a god?  Yes you do!  Yes you do!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull signals to Grey to come follow him.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GREY: <Grey snarls!>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Trinden is on the same map (AR6200)>
HULL: Trinden?  You wanna show this godling how to -be- god?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: I am not risking my very existence to settle this score in which I am only tangentially involved.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Bah!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Viconia is on the same map (AR6200)>
HULL: Viconia?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VICONIA: Hull, you are yet the naive man I met so -very long ago.-  <CHARNAME> here is about to become a god who is about to disrupt the very essence of the cosmos!  Followers of Lolth will know <CHARNAME>’s might and -tremble!-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I’ll take that as a no.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If CHARNAME is also romancing Viconia.>
VICONIA: Besides, <CHARNAME> has taught me that I can love and not merely lust.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Edwin is on the same map (AR6200)>
HULL: Edwin, wanna kill another god and have your ego stroked all the more?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
EDWIN: Enough of this!  Let these fools lose their own lives! (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I was expecting more from you, but I can’t say I entirely blame you for that.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: So, does this mean we’re gonna fight each other in a bit?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
EDWIN: You no longer serve my needs.  In fact, I find you despicable.  I won't spend another moment in your company.  (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: That settles it.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Drizzt is on the same map (AR6200)>
HULL: Drizzt and company, myself included?  Wanna team up?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: Yes, Hull.  Your request is granted.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Afaaq is on the same map (AR6200)>
HULL: Afaaq, will you grant my wish of preventing another evil deity from rising to power?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AFAAQ: It is a simple wish to grant, Hull.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AFAAQ: <CHARNAME>, know that I take no pleasure in your death, but I know the stakes.  Fortune favors the good, not the wicked.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Caelar is on the same map (AR6200)>
CAELAR: It is time this child of Bhaal and I had words.  (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Caelar, does heaven stand ready to stop the expansion of hell?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CAELAR: Surely, Hull!  Let this justice be swift, and, <CHARNAME>, your life and legacy fade faster than the setting sun!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CAELAR: <Caelar glares at <CHARNAME>!>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CAELAR: This is wrong.  I'll not stand by and watch you make a mockery of all the principles I hold to.  We part ways here.  (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Corwin is on the same map (AR6200) AND is romancing CHARNAME>
HULL: Captain Corwin, you want in on this double deity destroying day?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CORWIN: Love conquers all, Hull.  <CHARNAME> has already conquered my heart and I won’t surrender!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Poetic, but painful when used against me here!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Corwin is on the same map (AR6200) AND is NOT romancing CHARNAME>
HULL: Captain Corwin, you want in on this double deity destroying day?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CORWIN: I will, Hull.  The Flaming Fist helped defeat Sarevok and save my city of Baldur’s Gate!  Now, let us destroy this menace to the planes!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I’m glad I can count on you, captain!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Irenicus is on the same map (AR6200)>
HULL: Uh, Irenicus?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IRENICUS: I know the pact which brought me here.  I am -not- about to -compromise- it!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Better than burning eternally in Hell, I guess.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Bodhi from here or here is on the same map (AR6200)>
HULL: Uh, Bodhi?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BODHI: I serve one who can satisfy me!  Fighting <PRO_HIMHER> would be biting that hand!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Duly noted you ravenous monster.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Dorn is on the same map (AR6200)>
HULL: Dorn?  Have something to say?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DORN: Yes!  I can see it now.  A great fate awaits you. Do not forget those who have bled for you when you finally ascend. (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thought as much.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hubelpot is on the same map (AR6200)>
HULL: Hubelpot, are you in or out?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HUBELPOT: I’ll join you, Hull.  I wonder how gods taste with carrots, celery, and onions.  Maybe I’ll need some garlic for God Stew.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Cannibalism or not, let’s do this!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Saradas is on the same map (AR6200)>
HULL: Saradas the Sage, what do you say?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SARADAS: I was young and now I am old.  I have seen much affliction in my time, and I swore an oath to Lathander to help the downtrodden.  <CHARNAME>, your very nature is dangerous and in conflict with all that is good in the universe!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Sagacious!  Alright!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Sir Neh’taniel is on the same map (AR6200)>
HULL: Sir Neh’taniel, ready to dispense some justice?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SIR NEH’TANIEL: Dutifully.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Garrick is on the same map (AR6200).>
HULL: Garrick?  What do you say to this whole ascension thing?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GARRICK: I can't stand by and just let this happen! (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I was expecting a song and dance, but getting to the point is also good.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Yeslick from here or here is on the same map (AR6200).>
HULL: Yeslick?  I’m pretty sure you’ll help, but what do you say?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
YESLICK: I've seen enough greed and evil!  Change your ways, lest enemies we be! (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Good!  I knew I could count on you!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Branwen from here or here is on the same map (AR6200).>
HULL: Branwen?  Wanna score some points with your war god?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BRANWEN: Tempus!  Give us victory! (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I already feel like charging in!
<If Skie from here or here is on the same map (AR6200).>
HULL: Skie, whose side are you on?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SKIE: I’m not getting involved in this feud.  I suffered through the horrors of Soultaker and I’m not about to tempt fate again.  Sorry, Hull.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Your point hurts, but I get it.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Cernd is on the same map (AR6200).>
HULL: Cernd, wanna stop this affront to nature before it starts?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
FALDORN: For the greater balance! (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Deal!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Faldorn from here or here is on the same map (AR6200).>
HULL: Faldorn, what do you say?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
FALDORN: <CHARNAME>, I will have nothing more to do with your lot. (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
FALDORN: You should know full well that evil is evil and an enemy to nature!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Faldorn, thanks for your vote of confidence.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Coran from here or here is on the same map (AR6200).>
HULL: Coran, are you gonna sit on the side or stop this upstart evil deity with me?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CORAN: My worst hate is reserved for sitting and doing *yawn* nothing. (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CORAN: I grieve to lose a friend. (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Me too, Coran.  Me too.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Safana from here or here is on the same map (AR6200).>
HULL: Safana, what do you think about stopping a would-be evil deity?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SAFANA: This is probably the sanest decision this group has ever made. (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Good!  I’m glad we like this plan so much!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Alora from here or here is on the same map (AR6200).>
HULL: Alora, what do you think about evil deities?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ALORA: I don't think you're the type of people I should be hanging around with!  Goodbye! (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Even when you’re going against a former friend, you can still sound cute!  Thanks!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ALORA: Happy to help! (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Kivan from here or here is on the same map (AR6200).>
HULL: Kivan, are you with me?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KIVAN: Your courage shames the others. (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KIVAN: <CHARNAME>, I wish you hadn’t stopped so low as to try to take Bhaal’s power for yourself.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I agree.  We know what’s next.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KIVAN: One more friend to mourn. (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Deheriana is on the same map (AR6200).>
HULL: Deheriana, are you with me?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DEHERIANA: Yes, Hull.  I was avenged once.  Let us prevent the need for others to be avenged because of this evil!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Sound logic.  I can get with that.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Dusk is on the same map (AR6200) AND he isn’t Evil-aligned.>
HULL: Dusk, care to join me for the dawn of a new era with one less evil deity?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DUSK: <Dusk laughs.>  Let’s see what you’ve got! (p_dusk03.wav)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: -Finally!-  Someone else laughs at my jokes!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Yoshimo from here, here, here, or here is on the same map (AR6200).>
HULL: Yoshimo, what’s your reaction?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
YOSHIMO: You had best alter your thinking, my friend, or you can forget about the company of Yoshimo! (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I can appreciate the reasonable approach.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Elaryn is on the same map (AR6200).>
HULL: Elaryn?  You’re against evil magics.  Whadda ya say?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELARYN: Hull, I’m glad we agree.  <CHARNAME>, if you go through with this, we -will- be enemies and we -will- kill you!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: More bloodthirsty than I first thought.  I like your fighting spirit, girl!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Gorion is on the same map (AR6200).>
HULL: Gorion?  I hate to ask.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GORION: My child, I saved you twice from destruction!  I shall save you again if I must!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I respect that.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Alianna is on the same map (AR6200).>
HULL: Alianna?  I hate to ask.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ALIANNA: <CHARNAME>, oh, my sweet child!  How I -long- for you to take the place of the dead Lord of Murder!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: A bit -too- willing, but I see your point.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Any others?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull looks around and shrugs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: There’s yer answer, kid.
Do you really believe this is what Gorion would want me to do?
HULL: -Absolutely yes!-  Kid, he encouraged you to -avoid evil!-  He fought evil as a Harper alongside Elminster!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Gorion is in the area.>
GORION: Oh, <CHARNAME>, my child, Hull is right!  Listen to reason!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thank you, sir, for agreeing with me!
Hull, you’re right.  Let’s end this evil god thing here.  Solar, I’ve changed my decision.  Make me a mortal instead.  Final answer.
HULL: Kid, I’ll believe you once this thing is done.  Good on you for listening to reason.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SOLAR: Then you shall begin life anew, mortal, without the taint of your sire upon your soul... and the essence of Bhaal shall forever be hidden. You have done well, and freedom shall be your reward. Your decision has been made, godchild. Now the act must be carried out... prepare yourself!
Hull, your plan is -insane!-  Of -course- I’m accepting divinity!
HULL: Solar, hang on.  We’ll give this godling one more chance.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, my plan is -perfectly- reasonable... from a certain point of view.  If you seriously accept this offer of divinity, your life and the world are gonna get a -lot- more troubled and -fast!-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: If I let you go through with this, then one day I’ll simply -need- to fight you or your avatar or your followers.  Others will, too!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: So, is this your final answer?  Give into your inner evil just because you were born that way?
Hull, I propose a counteroffer.  I ascend and make you one of my Chosen like how Elminster is a Chosen of Mystra.
HULL: An intriguing proposal.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But, no.  You’d still be a god and I’d be in even -worse- shape as someone who’s expected to act evil all the time!
What do you say to this offer?  I ascend and keep my faithful away from you.  We simply end all contact here.
HULL: It’s an idea.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But, no.  You’d still be a god and there’s no way that I can force you to uphold your end of the bargain, -especially- if your faithful don’t recognize me!
Hull, are there any other terms you would accept where I would become a god and you’d allow it?
HULL: If you could get alignment switched and permanently stay that way, then sure!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Hey, solar, can you do that?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SOLAR: The time for that decision is past.  It is not within my power to bring that into being.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Then no.
Hull, you’re right.  Let’s end this evil god thing here.  Solar, I’ve changed my decision.  Make me a mortal instead.  Final answer.
HULL: Kid, I’ll believe you once this thing is done.  Good on you for listening to reason.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SOLAR: Then you shall begin life anew, mortal, without the taint of your sire upon your soul... and the essence of Bhaal shall forever be hidden. You have done well, and freedom shall be your reward. Your decision has been made, godchild. Now the act must be carried out... prepare yourself!
So, Hull, it has come to this.  There can -be- only one heritor of Bhaal’s essence and I -will- ascend!
HULL: <Hull sighs, then stares into <CHARNAME>’s eyes with a newfound determination!>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Yes, -murderer-, it has.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: If Hull wants to do something right, Hull would do it himself.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Baeloth is in the area.>
BAELOTH: Come one, come all! See the cream of the Sword Coast's combatant crop!  Witness the brilliant and bizarre battles in the Black Pits of the one and only Baeloth the Entertainer! (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<Regardless of Baeloth.>
HULL: Let’s get to the point.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Baeloth is in the area.>
BAELOTH: I bid the battle... begin! (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<REMOVE RELEVANT PARTY MEMBERS AND TAGALONGS.  END DIALOG.  BEGIN HULL’S FINAL DUEL!>
ToB: HULL’S FINAL DUEL
Mechanics Explained
            * This duel ONLY happens after beating Amelyssan IF all these are true:
               * Hull is in the area alive, not petrified, and otherwise able to act.
               * CHARNAME attempts to ascend to divinity as an evil deity.
                  * All characters mentioned above in the response, “Hull, you and what army?” as joining Hull will leave the party and turn hostile on CHARNAME and party.  Other party members not explicitly listed behave according to their alignment and romance as mentioned below:
                     * Characters romancing CHARNAME will never leave the party, regardless of alignment, unless otherwise noted.
                     * Creatures summoned or gated by the party remain in CHARNAME’s party.
                     * Good-aligned characters will leave the party and help Hull.
                     * Neutral characters each have a 1/3 chance of staying with CHARNAME, joining Hull, or just sitting out.  Non-evil Druids will instead join Hull’s side.
                     * Evil-aligned characters will ally with CHARNAME.
                     * “7th” party member units are also affected as if they were party members.  At present, these are:
                        * Afaaq the Djinn
                        * Brandock
                        * Grey the Dog
                        * Marcus the Diablo II Barbarian Companion
                        * Solaufein from Solaufein’s Rescue
                        * Sub-Zero
                           * Any character not in the fight is immediately healed to full, removed of all negative statuses, and rendered invincible and neutral to everyone fighting.  This includes the Solar angel.  These units are also teleported to the center of the map near the Solar.
                           * Everyone fighting in the duel is healed to full HP and removed of all negative statuses, but spells and daily abilities are not recovered.  Any buffs on all characters that were cast before the fight have their normal duration.
                           * The green essence pools have no new effects:  They remain as they are from the end of the Amelyssan fight.
                           * If CHARNAME dies, prevent the game from going to game over.  Instead, play the appropriate ending below.
                           * CHARNAME only wins when all opponents (Hull and all his allies) are dead.
NPCs who Abstain, Join Hull, or Stay with CHARNAME - In Brief
Abstain (Stay out of the Fight)
                              * Baeloth (unless the party uses a favor to fight with or against him)
                              * Eddard Silvershield
                              * Skie Silvershield
                              * Trinden
                              * Volo
Join Hull
                                 * Aerie
                                 * Afaaq
                                 * Ajantis
                                 * Anomen, even if he’s romancing CHARNAME
                                 * Balthazar
                                 * Baeloth (if the party uses a favor to fight against him)
                                 * Branwen
                                 * Caelar Argent
                                 * Cernd
                                 * Corwin AKA Captain Schael Corwin
                                 * Deheriana
                                 * Drizzt and his companions (Bruenor Battlehammer, Catti-Brie, Regis, Wulfgar)
                                 * Dynaheir
                                 * Faldorn
                                 * Garrick
                                 * Grey the Dog
                                 * Haer’Dalis
                                 * Hubelpot
                                 * Imoen
                                 * Jaheira
                                 * Jan
                                 * Keldorn
                                 * Khalid
                                 * Kivan
                                 * Mazzy (Good-aligned)
                                 * Minsc
                                 * Nalia
                                 * Neera
                                 * Quayle (if Aerie is also siding with CHARNAME)
                                 * Rasaad
                                 * Saradas
                                 * Sarevok (non-Evil)
                                 * Sir Neh’taniel
                                 * Valygar
                                 * Wilson
                                 * Yeslick
                                 * Yoshimo
Stay with CHARNAME
                                    * Any character romancing CHARNAME except where noted otherwise.
                                    * Alianna
                                    * Baeloth (if the party uses a favor to fight with him)
                                    * Bodhi
                                    * Dorn
                                    * Edwin
                                    * Gorion
                                    * Irenicus
                                    * Mazzy (not Good-aligned)
                                    * Quayle (if Aerie is also siding with CHARNAME)
                                    * Sarevok (Evil)
                                    * Viconia
                                    * Xzar
                                    * Summons, animated creatures, gated creatures, regardless of who brought them forth or how.
                                    * Any character not scripted otherwise.
ToB: EPILOG (BAELOTH)
BATTLEMASTER BAELOTH EPILOG: Triggered by having Baeloth
<If Baeloth was an announcer for Hull’s Final Duel.>
“Death delivered!” Baeloth gleefully shouted as Hull’s lifeless body fell to the floor of the Mana Forge.  Baeloth pitied Hull:  He was stubborn and loyal to <CHARNAME> until the end, but at least Hull had the sense to put up a fight and follow in Baeloth’s footsteps before he died - that is, he risked his life and legacy in an arena match because of a fight he picked.
For the moment at least, <CHARNAME>’s fight - and, by extension, Baeloth’s fight - against rival Bhaalspawn and followers of Bhaal was over.
With this Bhaalspawn saga ended, Baeloth and <CHARNAME> parted ways as allies and perhaps also friends.  Unlike certain others, Baeloth had no great interest in courting <CHARNAME>’s favor as a Bhaalspawn of humble origins in Candlekeep becoming a prominent interplanar figure.  He had his own scores to settle after briefly fulfilling Elminster’s request of him in tutoring one Alveus Malcanter, a mage whose growth had been stunted, but who had an aptitude for learning through violence and study like Baeloth.
During their time together, <CHARNAME> had helped Baeloth recover the power he lost when he overconfidently lost a fight in his original Black Pits.  Baeloth and his Black Pits are effectively inseparable.
Thus, Baeloth began contacting his Thayan allies.  Dennaton of Thay’s arena invited Baeloth who went by an alias, an anagram of “Baeloth Lives.”
Baeloth would eventually capture the champions of this Thayan arena after they cleared all the challenges set before them, laying waste to the arena in the process.  “Home!  My pitiful performers of pathetic power want to go HOME!  Well, let’s TAKE THEM HOME!” Baeloth said before warping them to ‘safety’ in their stasis chambers in Baeloth’s newest entertainment spectacle under construction, the Pitch Black Pits!
Whereas Baeloth’s previous arena endeavors were small-scale, the Pitch Black Pits aimed to contain the planes’ most powerful pugilists - heroes and villains of immense ability, demigods, and abominations untamed by beings of lesser power - broadcast to crystal balls and scrying devices throughout the multiverse.  It seemed that no matter how cordial Baeloth was to <CHARNAME>, it was all a setup to fulfill Baeloth’s most ambitious arena plans yet!
After all, nothing was too extravagant, too extreme, nor too violent for Baeloth Barrityl, Showman of Showmen and Entertainer of Entertainers!
“Let me entertain you!” shouted Baeloth as pitted a new 6-pack of ‘heroes’ against a Tarrasque he cloned, and Baeloth was the happiest he’d ever been!
ToB: EPILOGS (HULL)
DRUNKEN SORROWS EPILOG: Triggered by having Dorn and Hull in the party for Dorn’s ToB sidequest to Lunia then siding with Dorn over Hull at Watcher’s Keep so Hull leaves the game world
As Hull left <CHARNAME>’s presence, he was heartbroken.  Tears eventually fell from his face as he walked and walked and walked.  
Hull became a wanderer in the land with some notoriety for his time and association with <CHARNAME>, going from this inn to that, telling his tales in exchange for room, board, and drunkenness.
Hull’s familiarity with many inns and drinking spots gained him more fame as the go-to guy for what to drink and where.  The attention improved his friendship with the famous Volo, author to guides of the realms, where Hull served as Volo’s primary reviewer of taverns, inns, restaurants, and similar venues.
Hull continued to resent <CHARNAME> and <PRO_HISHER> legacy.  Hull -knew- he was right to withdraw his presence, but being correct didn’t stop him from hating the fact that he was encouraged to attack Lunia then replaced by the notorious Blackguard Dorn.
<If Hull has become knighted from finishing his SoA quest, add this section below.>
Months or years after Hull went on his drinking spree and helping Volo, he finally came to his senses:  He had the comforting solace of his knightly position within the Most Noble Order of the Radiant Heart was available to him.  He sobered up and returned where he was helped to atone for involvement in Lunia.
<Regardless of Hull’s quest completion.>
Before his death, Hull requested to be buried beside his mentor and father figure, Gorion - a request that was easily granted.  With his heart turned to worshiping Oghma, he was eventually laid to rest in Oghma’s home plane with Gorion.
MORTAL COMPANION EPILOG: Triggered by having Hull in the party and CHARNAME becoming a mortal
After finishing with the Throne of Bhaal and the Mana Forge, Hull sighed a heavy sigh of relief.  This Bhaalspawn saga was over, and Hull lived knowing he had finished Gorion’s legacy in <CHARNAME> and that Hull was a hero throughout the realms and the planes!
<If CHARNAME accepted Hull as a companion at the end of ToB in a dialog.>
Hull continued with <CHARNAME> as <PRO_HISHER> friend and faithful companion.  While they were never romantically involved, they were the best of friends, traveling companions, and, of course, drinking buddies.
Amidst their revelries, Hull visited Candlekeep and used his time to write <CHARNAME>’s biography, “The Time When I Told a Child of the God of Murder to Fetch me my Sword - the Official Biography of <CHARNAME> as told by <PRO_HISHER> friend and brother, Hull.”
<If Hull has become knighted from finishing his SoA quest, add this section below.>
Hull also took time to fulfill his duties to the Most Noble Order of the Radiant Heart where he eventually became a senior member.  With his experience in combat and fighting evil, his promotion through the ranks was effectively assured.
<Regardless of Hull’s quest completion.>
Before his death, Hull requested to be buried beside his mentor and father figure, Gorion - a request that was easily granted.  With his heart turned to worshiping Oghma, he was eventually laid to rest in Oghma’s home plane with Gorion.
HERO LIKE DRIZZT EPILOG: Triggered by having Hull in the party and CHARNAME becoming a mortal or a non-evil deity
After finishing with the Throne of Bhaal and the Mana Forge, Hull sighed a heavy sigh of relief.  This Bhaalspawn saga was over, and Hull lived knowing he had finished Gorion’s legacy in <CHARNAME> and that Hull was a hero throughout the realms and the planes!
Hull and <CHARNAME> parted ways on friendly terms, occasionally visiting each other as intimate friends once this Bhaalspawn saga was over.   
Hull focused on exploring the realms and the planes, performing mighty exploits, and accompanying Drizzt Do’Urden as one of his faithful companions.  Together, they were a force for good wherever it is they went.
Amidst their adventures, Hull visited Candlekeep and used his time to write <CHARNAME>’s biography, “The Time When I Told a Child of the God of Murder to Fetch me my Sword - the Official Biography of <CHARNAME> as told by <PRO_HISHER> friend and brother, Hull.”  He also wrote, “In the Shadow of the Dark Elf - the Official Biography of Drizzt Do’Urden as told by his friend and companion, Hull.”
<If Hull has become knighted from finishing his SoA quest, add this section below.>
Hull also took time to fulfill his duties to the Most Noble Order of the Radiant Heart where he eventually became a senior member.  With his experience in combat and fighting evil, his promotion through the ranks was effectively assured.  Drizzt and his companions also occasionally advised the knights or otherwise helped the order with its missions.
<Regardless of Hull’s quest completion.>
Before his death, Hull requested to be buried beside his mentor and father figure, Gorion - a request that was easily granted.  With his heart turned to worshiping Oghma, he was eventually laid to rest in Oghma’s home plane with Gorion.
NON-EVIL GOD COMPANION EPILOG: Triggered by having Hull in the party and CHARNAME becoming a non-evil deity
After finishing with the Throne of Bhaal and the Mana Forge, Hull sighed a heavy sigh of relief.  This Bhaalspawn saga was over, and Hull lived knowing he had finished Gorion’s legacy in <CHARNAME> and that Hull was a hero throughout the realms and the planes!
Hull was -exceptionally- pleased that <CHARNAME> chose him as one of <PRO_HISHER>’s champions.  Hull agreed that this is what Gorion intended for <CHARNAME> to become - to transform <PRO_HISHER>’s murderous heritage into a force for good.  
Hull continued for years with <CHARNAME> as <PRO_HISHER> friend and faithful companion.  While they were never romantically involved, they were the best of friends, companions, and, of course, drinking buddies.
When not combatting the forces of evil, Hull visited Candlekeep and used his time to write <CHARNAME>’s biography, “The Time When I Told a Child of the God of Murder to Fetch me my Sword - the Official Biography of <CHARNAME> as told by <PRO_HISHER> friend and brother, Hull.”
<If Hull has become knighted from finishing his SoA quest, add this section below.>
When he could, Hull also worked with the Most Noble Order of the Radiant Heart to coordinate their efforts with <CHARNAME>’s as a force for good in the universe.  Hull was given a senior rank in the order for this, which pleased him mostly because he thought he was making Gorion proud by this.
<Regardless of Hull’s quest completion.>
With his devotion to <CHARNAME>, Hull eventually became <PRO_HISHER> faithful Chosen and an inspiration to all in Candlekeep about what happens for those that apply themselves - and sometimes happen to be in the right place at the right time.
Though Hull mourned for the deaths of his kinsmen in Candlekeep, many were surprised when he volunteered to put on an elaborate funeral for Ulraunt, the “Old Buzzard” and ruler of Candlekeep.  Once everyone was in place and a token eulogy had been given, he burned the casket with Ulraunt’s corpse inside and saluted him by dropping his pants and peeking on the burning body’s face while encouraging others to do the same.  It turned out that absolutely -no one- loved Ulraunt.
EVIL GOD (HULL DEFEATED IN FINAL FIGHT AGAINST CHARNAME) EPILOG: Triggered by having Hull in the party and CHARNAME becoming an evil deity by beating Hull in combat
<Add this to the start of the epilog.>
Hull’s lifeless form collapsed on the floor of the Mana Forge, his final attempt at redeeming <CHARNAME> thwarted.  He uttered no last screams, no last words.  The final look on his face was that of sorrow and pity toward <CHARNAME> who had used Hull to ascend to divinity.
Hull’s memory to you of a friendly goofball with a fondness for drinking who came looking for you hundreds of miles from home because he missed you and wanted the best for <CHARNAME> will remain that - a memory.
EVIL GOD (CHARNAME DEFEATED IN FINAL FIGHT AGAINST HULL & CO) EPILOG: Triggered by having Hull in the party and CHARNAME becoming an evil deity by losing to Hull and maybe others in combat.  THIS ENDING MODIFIES THE DEFAULT GOD/MORTAL ENDING!
<Note that the normal ending and epilog DO NOT PLAY:  This plays instead!>
As the life leaves <CHARNAME>’s form, the essence of Bhaal that <CHARNAME> contained is released, and yet Bhaal is not revived.  
Regardless, Hull falls to the floor, dropping whatever was in his hands, with pained tears falling down his pained face.  “Kid, you were like a <PRO_BROTHERSISTER> to me,” Hull utters weakly amidst the sobbing.
A moment passes and Hull returns to his senses, stands, and requests the Solar send him home to Candlekeep.  Hull fulfilled what he believed Gorion would have wanted - the prevention of the return of the Lord of Murder and the rise of a new evil deity.
Once in Candlekeep, Hull returned to Winthrop and relayed the tale of how <CHARNAME> and he ventured the world and the planes together, vanquishing evil, until the very last moment when Hull did what he -had- to do to keep the world intact and fulfill Gorion’s legacy.
Hull wrote <CHARNAME>’s biography, “How I Almost Killed the Lord of Murder, by Hull,” and promoted it as a cautionary tale of corruption.
<If Hull has become knighted from finishing his SoA quest, add this section below.>
When he could, Hull also worked with the Most Noble Order of the Radiant Heart to coordinate their efforts with <CHARNAME>’s as a force for good in the universe.  Hull was given a senior rank in the order for this, which pleased him mostly because he thought he was making Gorion proud by this.
<Regardless of Hull’s quest completion.>
Before his death, Hull requested to be buried beside his mentor and father figure, Gorion - a request that was easily granted.  With his heart turned to worshiping Oghma, he was eventually laid to rest in Oghma’s home plane with Gorion.
ToB: EPILOG (TRINDEN)
TRINDEN’S ASCENSION: CHARNAME BECOMES A GOD
<If Baeloth was an announcer for Hull’s Final Duel.>
“Death delivered!” Baeloth gleefully shouted as Hull’s lifeless body fell to the floor of the Mana Forge.
<If Hull still lost his duel without Baeloth in the area.>
Trinden sighed and shook his head at Hull, a man loyal to the last for his friend and ally <CHARNAME>.  Though it was not his fight, he knew Hull’s conviction toward bringing out the best in <CHARNAME>.  Trinden realized Hull was a social revolutionary, challenging a would-be deity to a duel knowing that Hull and <CHARNAME> each had much to lose or gain from this fight.  Trinden shed a tear for Hull, an act uncharacteristic of the typically stern or even intimidating Trinden.
<Regardless of Hull’s duel.>
Trinden took a deep breath as he looked around, loudly cracking his knuckles.  He smiled widely and felt confident and relaxed as he surveyed what was seemingly a deity’s home plane.  This hostile plane of war and blood was not the sort of place Trinden wanted to call home, but its eerie and perhaps intimidating presence was inspirational.
Trinden smiled and nodded at <CHARNAME>, thanking <PRO_HIMHER> for <PRO_HISHER> tutelage and first-hand experience of what it was like to ascend to divinity.  “Two of the axioms of Trinden’s Trinity held true for you this day, <CHARNAME>:  Violence solves everything and magic solves everything, for there is no natural way to become a god and no deity surrenders their position willingly.”
Trinden continues, a relaxed smile on his face with his usual confidence is his tone.  “I have other planes to visit and other research to do; however, this experience was instrumental to aid me in forming my opinion on how I should act as a deity.”
Trinden concludes, a hint of regret in his tone.  “It was unfortunate we could not meet earlier.  Only because you called me to aid me in my divine research did we even meet.  Once my research has reached a satisfactory conclusion, I shall send you my full report.  In the meantime, enjoy this memento.”
Trinden hands you a small white card with green writing boldly emblazoned on it, and a green and white dragon’s head logo on the back:
TRINDEN FELSAD
HEAD OF HOUSE FELSAD
METAPHYSICAL REVOLUTIONARY
MATERIAL PLANE OF YEVIR
Trinden bows respectfully toward <CHARNAME>, then disappears in a flash of blue light.
Trinden would continue his research into divinity across the planes for another decade before finally settling on his style.  He would be stern, but fair and cautious about forgiveness.  In all things, he encouraged magical experimentation and innovation for the sake of greater perfection.  His favored weapon was still the longsword.  His sacred creature was the green dragon, including half-dragons and other dragonbloods that were not full, true dragons.  His holy symbol was a shield with a green dragon’s head upon it.
This is Trinden’s story as has been written so far.  What will he invent next?
TRINDEN’S DISAPPOINTMENT: CHARNAME STAYS A MORTAL
Trinden took a deep breath as he looked around, loudly cracking his knuckles.  He smiled widely and felt confident and relaxed as he surveyed what was seemingly a deity’s home plane.  This hostile plane of war and blood was not the sort of place Trinden wanted to call home, but its eerie and perhaps intimidating presence was inspirational.
Trinden looked with disappointment and confusion at <CHARNAME> for not ascending when <PRO_HESHE> had the chance.  “This... is an unfortunate conclusion; however, I have witnessed enough for this to be worthy of adding to my report.  Ascension was your decision; however, I consider the notion alien that anyone would willingly decline such ascension.  Perhaps you were concerned about the divine politics, and as a political figure myself, I understand why others may want to avoid it.”
Trinden smiled and nodded at <CHARNAME>, thanking <PRO_HIMHER> for <PRO_HISHER> tutelage and first-hand experience of what it was like to ascend be around someone with a chance to ascend to divinity.  “Two of the axioms of Trinden’s Trinity held true for you this day, <CHARNAME>:  Violence solves everything and magic solves everything, for there is no natural way to become a god and no deity surrenders their position willingly.”
Trinden continues, a relaxed smile on his face with his usual confidence is his tone.  “I have other planes to visit and other research to do; however, this experience was instrumental to aid me in forming my opinion on how I should act as a deity.”
Trinden concludes, a hint of regret in his tone.  “It was unfortunate we could not meet earlier.  Only because you called me to aid me in my divine research did we even meet.  Once my research has reached a satisfactory conclusion, I shall send you my full report.  In the meantime, enjoy this memento.”
Trinden hands you a small white card with green writing boldly emblazoned on it, and a green and white dragon’s head logo on the back:
TRINDEN FELSAD
HEAD OF HOUSE FELSAD
METAPHYSICAL REVOLUTIONARY
MATERIAL PLANE OF YEVIR
Trinden bows respectfully toward <CHARNAME>, then disappears in a flash of blue light.
Trinden would continue his research into divinity across the planes for another decade before finally settling on his style.  He would be stern, but fair and cautious about forgiveness.  In all things, he encouraged magical experimentation and innovation for the sake of greater perfection.  His favored weapon was still the longsword.  His sacred creature was the green dragon, including half-dragons and other dragonbloods that were not full, true dragons.  His holy symbol was a shield with a green dragon’s head upon it.
This is Trinden’s story as has been written so far.  What will he invent next?
ToB: DORN’S COMPANION QUESTS
Dialog with Planetar of Justice - Oasis, Pre-Fight
PLANETAR: I have not passed judgment-I simply carry it out.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, this is -no way- to get heavenly attention!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: I question my decision to venture forth with you <CHARNAME>, and that orcish -brute- of yours!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: History will show that -we- are the protagonists of this conflict and -we- will prevail!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PLANETAR: Beware the company you keep, Volo.  Elminster and Mystra would -not- be pleased with your decision here.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: I thank you for knowing my name!  I do apologize, but you stand in our way.  This would make for a -fascinating- tale!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: Do not -mock- me, angel.  I have enslaved your kind before.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Have the heavens heeded my cry?  We need more -celestial- combatants to battle in my Black Pits!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PLANETAR: I am not here for you specifically, drow.  Stand aside and I shall spare you.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-
BAELOTH: I must abstain from your offer, planetar!  I am too curious if your blood tastes more like honey, lemon, or mint!
Dialog with Planetar of Justice - Oasis, Post-Fight
PLANETAR: Those who side with the half-orc will share his damnation!  I shall add your name to the Scroll of Retribution, <CHARNAME>!
<The Planetar of Justice disappears.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: More and more I am questioning my choice of company.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: What an angsty angel!  I doubt his ditty will -do- anything.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: I expected greater boldness from the heavens.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: <Volo turns to Dorn.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: You seem -remarkably- unfazed!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DORN: Their threats are as empty as their heads!  We shall soon conquer them!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, I just -know- how this is gonna go and I don’t like it.  At all!
HULL: Violence and probably deception.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, this ain’t at -all- what Gorion would’ve wanted!  I don’t want it, either!
Hull, all of us got sucked into this mess because of Dorn.
HULL: Yeah.  I know.  But you let him in when I was tryin’ to tell ya, kid, that he’s -bad news!-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DORN: Hmph.
There’s probably an easy fix for this.
HULL: Quick ‘n’ painful is probably a better term, kid - no thanks to the vampiric-looking half-orc over there.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DORN: If you so objected to my ethics, human, you should have never stayed!
Dorn, what do you propose on how we should proceed?
DORN: We have triumphed... for the moment.  Planetars are implacable foes.  As long as my name is in this Scroll of Retribution, she and her kind will keep coming in greater and greater numbers.
DORN: You are being uncharacteristically helpful, Ur-Gothoz.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And this is sounding worse by the minute, and not in a fun way!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: Agreed.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
UR-GOTHOZ: Silence, human!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull quickly goes quiet, looking at Hull and <CHARNAME> with annoyance, frustration, and disapproval.>
DORN: Then, <CHARNAME>?  We go to war.  We go to war with Heaven.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I hope you realize just how -stupid you sound!-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, I feel offended at just how -vile- you’ve let yourself be and how -eager- you are to let him manipulate you like this!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, I’m out.  Gorion probably would’ve done the same.  I dunno if even -he- would be as patient as me!
Leave then, Hull.  Dorn will be my bodyguard now.
HULL: Wow, kid!  You didn’t seem affected -at all!-  Either you’re -suicidally confident- or you believe that whatever price there is for your freedom, it’ll be easily paid!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Look for me around Watcher’s Keep when your senses return!
<Hull leaves the party.>  <END DIALOG.>
Hull, Gorion taught me to try to see the best in everyone.  I -tried- to do that will Dorn here, and this happened!  I’m sorry, my friend.
HULL: Kid, I felt that in the blood pumper!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I’ll stay and help wipe out that handwriting of damnation against you.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I’ll stay for you, kid.  -This time.-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Learn your lesson -quickly-, kid!
<END DIALOG.>
Hull, I trust your decision to do what’s right.  If you’re leaving or staying, you know that’s right for you and I respect that.
HULL: I... I thought you were just acting stupid now, but you got -me- thinkin’!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: If you were in my situation now, kid, what would you do?
I would leave.  I said I would do it.
HULL: Alright, kid.  Meet me at Watcher’s Keep.  Dorn isn’t welcome.
<HULL LEAVES THE PARTY.>  <END DIALOG.>
I would stay because the person I challenged showed the growth I expected of them.
HULL: It’s a deal, kid!
<END DIALOG.>
Hull, don’t you care that the angels might come after you, too?  You’re probably guilty by association!
HULL: No, kid.  If they come for me, I surrender and apologize.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Besides, that planetar never said -my- name was due for retribution - only Dorn’s and yours.
Why aren’t you mad at Dorn for getting us into this mess?
HULL: Kid, we grew up together in Candlekeep.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Gorion never died for Dorn.  He died for -you.-  Maybe he died for Imoen, too.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: We all know Dorn’s a bastard.  The planetar basically said so.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DORN: My patience with you is nearly ended, human!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: My point?  I just expected Dorn to act like Dorn and you, kid, to act like someone Gorion would want to boast about in his glorious afterlife!
If you don’t me now, you probably won’t get to see the heavens in person any time soon!
HULL: Maybe not in this life, kid, but I’d -gladly- live there in the next.
Hull, don’t you want to come find out if Gorion ended up in this afterlife?
HULL: <Hull smiles.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Clever, kid, but I’m pretty sure Gorion worshipped Oghma, God of Knowledge.  Oghma’s divine realm is the House of Knowledge, not Lunia.
[If Baeloth is in the party] Baeloth, I may regret asking, but what do you say to this?
BAELOTH: This is no fun.  Start killing things already! (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: How predictable.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Precisely my point!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull shakes his head and sighs.>
[If Drizzt is in the party] Drizzt, what do you say to this?
DRIZZT: I shall accompany you, <CHARNAME>, for the scant chance you shall change your mind.  I do this not for my glory nor to satisfy a mere curiosity, but because things greater than ourselves may depend on it!
Are you not concerned about being put on the heavenly hit list with the Scroll of Justice?
DRIZZT: Only slightly.  My reputation precedes me.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Well, at least you’re honest!
[If Trinden is in the party] Trinden, you’ve dealt with angels before.  How would you handle this?
TRINDEN: Angelkind seems to be slow to act overtly.  We have been invited or challenged to undo Dorn’s offense by following that angel into the heavens.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I got that.  Then what?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: Expect a violent resistance.  Heavenly beings resent intruders.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You sound like an -expert- on this!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: I am.  My Uncle sent my house to negotiate with angels, and when that failed, to soul trap a high-ranking angel in the heavens.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull stares at Trinden, his mouth silently held wide open!>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DORN: Aha!  -That- is the sort of -boldness- I like to hear!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: This deed -also- made me question my life in ways nothing else ever did.  It was on that day I swore to -never- be someone’s pawn again, even to my revered uncle!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull clears his throat.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But did you soul trap that angel?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: Yes.  -That- is what triggered my questioning of my reality.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You really -are- a bastard!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: I never claimed otherwise.
[If Volo is in the party] Volo, what do you say to this?
VOLO: My friend, if you pursue this opportunity as morally questionable as it may be, it shall make for a most -spectacular- tale!  To visit the Upper Planes is a rare event for most, and to fight against what resides there is even rarer!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: I get the feeling that wasn’t what you wanted to hear.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Volo, I get it.  Yer a storyteller.  Adventure follows you and so on.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You just aren’t seein’ the bigger ‘n’ frickin’ -obvious- moral problem here!
[If Imoen is in the party] Imoen, what are your thoughts regarding this situation?
IMOEN: <CHARNAME>, I... I don’t know.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: <Imoen takes a deep breath.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: Hull, if you must leave, then go.  I’d welcome you back here any time.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <A tear falls down Hull’s face.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: That makes the point I’m trying to prove hurt even more!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DORN: Your sentimentality sickens me.  Will you join us in our vengeance against the heavens, -human?-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Until -that- happened!
Hull, aren’t you concerned that the heavens seek vengeance upon me?
HULL: Not one bit.  We know your heritage, and at this point you’re basically a god of war.
[If CHARNAME is female] -Goddess- of war, Hull!
HULL: Whatever.
<CONTINUE AS IF CHARNAME HAD REMAINED SILENT.>
[If CHARNAME is female] <Remain silent.>
HULL: The point is that you’re powerful enough to handle this problem, -your- problem.
<NOTE: If CHARNAME is male, simply play Hull’s response as if CHARNAME remained silent in this case without a dialog box to select a reply.>
I do too.
HULL: At least you’re -that- smart!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, this ain’t at -all- what Gorion would’ve wanted!  I don’t want it, either!
<Continue with dialog options as if the player had chosen, “How?”>
Lunia Dialog (Initial)
<If Hexxat and Hull are in the party.>
HEXXAT: This is no place for my kind, <CHARNAME>.  Let’s get this done quickly before my flesh burns off my bones.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: That’s what you get for your undeath.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: What a -beautiful- landscape!  I can already -smell- the pure air, like being kissed by a gentle spring night!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Well, that’s a poetic way to put it!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: This is the calm before the storm, no doubt.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Probably.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: What lucious low light illuminates us!  Have the heavens heeded my call, waiting to do my bidding?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Not likely.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: <Trinden sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: So, it has come to this.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I’m not likin’ it either.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: I can already -feel- the memories being reenacted within me - how my house was put on trial by the heavens for abusing the use of the energy that was lent to them for the creation of items used to fight wickedness.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: I -knew- the trial was a sham, and that they simply were too proud or scared at the power we as ‘mere mortals’ wielded to ask for our help.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: After calling them out, I quickly went on the offensive, attacked their leader, and soul trapped him - Aurelius was his name.  This is one thing I openly regretted for a long time.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Well, I think you win the pity contest.  How did you get over it?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: A long time later, after returning to my home plane, I released him so he could help the remnants of our house reach the center of our world and the goddess who slept there.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: My uncle was right:  He would not have come willingly.  It was the most ‘humane’ way to handle the situation.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Uh, remind me to never piss you off.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: <Trinden slowly smiles at Hull.>
Lunia - After Killing Something
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: We killed something!  Did we just taint Heaven?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I’m gettin’ flashbacks to Candlekeep.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: “Marvel at perfection for it is fleeting.
You have brought Sin to Heaven
And doom upon the world.”
Hull, what?
HULL: I remembered some priestly passage.  The Canticles of... something.  I hope that didn’t refer to us!
I just assume that didn’t refer to us.  This Bhaalspawn war is a bigger threat, and you know it.
HULL: <Hull looks at you uncomfortably.>
Don’t worry, Hull.  I’m sure whoever’s in charge of this place can just make a new plane if needed.
HULL: Well, when you put it -that- way, kid, it doesn’t seem so bad.
Time to continue with this place, Hull.
HULL: Gotcha.  <END DIALOG.>
Lunia - Numan Alore & the Scroll of Righteous Wrath
<If Hull is in the party.>
DORN: Get ready to eat your own fingers, scribe.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: All of you, I’m sorry for what we came here to do.  Someone around here picked a fight with a vampiric half-orc and a Spawn of Bhaal.
<END DIALOG.>
Immediately After Leaving Lunia, Having Removed Names from the Scroll of Righteous Wrath - Play Dialog After Dorn’s
<If Hull is in the party.>
DORN: Mark my words, <CHARNAME>.  A day is coming when the gods themselves will tremble to hear our names.  I can feel it.  This is only the beginning... friend.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Alright, kid.  We made the heavens tremble.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Now, let’s -never do anything like that again!-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DORN: You are a -coward-, Hull!  Just listen to your prattling!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Proudly boasting about how you defiled the upper planes with little trouble is the sort of thing that -should- have convicted you, Dorn.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Instead, we all know you’re a bastard at heart.  And a murderer.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DORN: Is that a challenge, -human?-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: No, Dorn.  It’s a point that should have convicted you and cut you sharper than any sword you’ve liked to wield.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DORN: <Dorn quietly groans as he glares at Hull.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, redeeming Dorn over there is a lost cause.  We did him a favor and -this- is how he treats us?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DORN: Make your point -plain-, human!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Put simply, either he leaves or I leave.  Now.
Hull, why must it be this way?
HULL: Gorion would’ve called Dorn a lost cause -long- ago, kid.  I don’t like his style, and I’m just -tired- of catering to his vile ways!
[If the party marked Saemon Havarian’s name on the Scroll of Retribution] Would it help your case to know that I put Saemon Havarian’s name on the Scroll of Retribution instead of ours?
HULL: <Hull smiles.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Saemon was a bastard, kid, but in a -much- smaller league!  He’s never stomped his way through the heavens, leaving a bloody mess where he went!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: So, no, kid.
[If the party marked Azothet’s or Ur-Gothoz’s name on the Scroll of Retribution] Would it help your case to know that I put Dorn’s patron’s name on the Scroll of Retribution instead of ours?
HULL: <Hull smiles and looks at you in awe!>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, -that’s- the sort of scheme that even Gorion would be proud of!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Y’know what?  I’ve changed my mind.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And Dorn?  You have my respect.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DORN: <Dorn looks at Hull and snorts.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DORN: It is good to know that you can be a reasonable man, -human.-
<END DIALOG.>
[If Dorn is an ex-Blackguard] Would it help your case to know that Dorn gave up his lower planes patron?
HULL: <Hull smiles.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Y’know what?  I’ve changed my mind.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And Dorn?  You have my respect.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DORN: <Dorn looks at Hull and snorts.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DORN: It is good to know that you can be a reasonable man, -human.-
<END DIALOG.>
[If Imoen is in the party] Imoen, what do you say to this situation?
IMOEN: Hull, I didn’t like this either, but I... I just -know- we’re close to finishing our destiny!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: I know we’re living legends, but, well, do you want to see how this story ends?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull looks frustrated and uncomfortable.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I’d rather be remembered as a hero instead of a villain.
[If CHARNAME’s INT & WIS are 15+ and CHARNAME’s CHA is 16+] Hull, Gorion knew my legacy and yet he saved me from certain death at the hands of my mother and sheltered me in Candlekeep.  He risked his life, his reputation, and to some extent, all of Candlekeep to ensure I was kept safe for the time we’re in now.  He even chose to shelter Imoen, knowing she also had a similar heritage.  Gorion chose to risk destroying Candlekeep and every innocent life within it to ensure this Bhaalspawn war wouldn’t destroy the multiverse.  What do you say, Hull?
HULL: Kid, I see your point.  I was thinkin’ too small, here.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Dorn over there -also- has a point about the gods being too scared to counter whatever we just did because we’re just -so powerful.-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Dorn is in the party.>
DORN: I shall take that as a token of gratitude, -human.-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull closes his eyes and releases a pained sigh.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I’ll stay for now, kid, but know this.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Every time you embrace your vile heritage, my heart hurts for you that much more, like a father who wants to see his kid do right, but who gets tripped up again and again.
<END DIALOG.>
Hull, would anything else persuade you to stay?
HULL: No, kid.  I’ve seen enough.
Hull, I choose you.  Stay with me.  Dorn, your time is done.
HULL: Kid, you chose well.  Thanks.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DORN: So be it, <CHARNAME>.  It is time that I left to forge my -own- legends!  <END DIALOG.>  <DORN LEAVES THE PARTY.>
<END DIALOG.>
Dorn, come with me.  Hull, this is where we part ways.
DORN: Ah ha, <CHARNAME>!  You are a wise one!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, it didn’t hafta be this way!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Look for me around Watcher’s Keep when your senses return!    <END DIALOG.>  <HULL LEAVES THE PARTY.>
ToB: HEXXAT’S COMPANION QUESTS
After Arriving in the Lich’s Tomb with Hull in the party
HULL: Time to end this son of a lich!
I see what you did there, Hull.
HULL: You can see sounds now?  Good!
When do the puns end?
HULL: After our journey does, kid.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Besides, I read that one in a book!
Agreed, Hull.
HULL: Alright.  Whoever’s goin’ first, lead the way.  <END DIALOG.>
Dialog with Phreya (first encounter) - Hull is in the Party
PHREYA: You think not?  Tell me, Hexxat, how would you feel if you were assigned a job but not given the proper tools?  You didn’t just fail L, you failed me!  Look at me now!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I don’t really know what’s going on except this new girl yelled a bunch and now we’re about to fight.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<CONTINUE SCENE.>
Dialog with Phreya (library encounter) - Hull is in the Party
PHREYA: Killing you now would save have you disappointment later!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Phreya, I -really- don’t know what’s going on and I -really- don’t care.  You’re up against a child of the god of murder.  The only thing you should be saying is, “I surrender!”
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You wouldn’t be the first to think you could stop us with your flapping mouth and you probably won’t be the last.  <END DIALO.>
Dialog with Phreya (final encounter) - Hull is in the Party
PHREYA: Congratulations, Hexxat.  You made it as far as I did.  But I’m afraid you’ll go no further.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Says the gal we beat what - four, five times already?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<CONTINUE SCENE.>
Dialog with Hexxat after beating Korkorran’s first form - Hull is in the Party
HEXXAT: That was too easy.  Too easy by far.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull shrugs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: What did you expect, Elminster?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Let’s go get the phylactery and make sure it gets smashed into itty bitty bite-sized chunks.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Drizzt is also in the party.>
DRIZZT: That is assuming the phylactery is the problem.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<Regardless of whether Drizzt is in the party.>
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<CONTINUE SCENE.>
ToB: HULL RESCUES SARADUSH
Image Credit
-Ajantis, Anomen, Keldorn, and Mazzy are here if they accompanied Hull.  They have their normal dialog.  Nothing new for trying to save Saradush.
-Hull has 3 less Oils of Speed and Potions of Invisibility (minimum 0 each).
[If Hull didn’t rescue Volo from Saradush but Hull tried his plan anyway] Hull Dialog at Watcher’s Keep
<The party gets 10,000 quest EXP.  Hull gets an extra 10,000 quest EXP.>
HULL: We made it out safe ‘n’ sound!  The locals were none too happy about my plan to shove ‘em into an extradimensional bag.  At least I tried!  
What about the stuff I let you use?
HULL: The bag’s fine kid.  I chain chugged potions while running at record speeds.  I downed the stuff so fast I almost forgot about the horrid aftertaste!
What horrid aftertaste?
HULL: Some potions have a worse aftertaste than rum or malt liquor!  At least there’s less hangover.
[If the party has visited the ruins of Saradush] Saradush was destroyed!
HULL: <Hull sighs and shakes his head.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: We did what we could, kid.  We did what we could.
That’s all for now.  Maybe we’ll talk again later.
<If Hull isn’t in the party.>
HULL: Kid, I’m ready to help you finish your destiny!  Let’s make history together!
Before we regroup, have you seriously considered venturing with Volo or Drizzt or Elminster instead?
HULL: All of them are great at what they do, kid, but -so are you!-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I know, kid, that you may think us lucky to be alive, or that I woulda picked Drizzt over you.  I still appreciate all of them, but I chose to be a stand-in for Gorion and I’m not quittin’ ‘til the job’s done!
Sure!  Let’s regroup!
HULL: <Hull winks at <CHARNAME.>>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Let’s finish this fight!  <Hull rejoins the group.  End dialog.>
Maybe later, Hull.
HULL: <Hull’s eyes narrow at you.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid?  C’mon!  Let’s join up ‘n’ finish this job!
Alright, teammate.  Let’s finish what we started!
HULL: -That’s- the spirit!  Let’s go!  <Hull rejoins the group.  End dialog.>
I’m not ready for us to regroup yet, Hull.
HULL: <Hull looks down, his face turns red, and tears stream down his face.>  <End dialog.>
[If Hull rescued Volo from Saradush] Hull & Volo Dialog at Watcher’s Keep:  This initial dialog is the same for talking to Hull or Volo
<The party gets 10,000 quest EXP.>
HULL: Kid, welcome back!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: We made it out safe ‘n’ sound!  Most the locals were none too happy about my plan to shove ‘em into an extradimensional bag, but Volo was fine with it!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Hull’s plan was not the most -ridiculous- one I ever tried.  I am grateful to all of you for your aid in getting me out of Saradush.  That place was uncomfortably close to being destroyed!
What about the stuff I let you use?
HULL: The bag’s fine kid.  I chain chugged potions while running at record speeds.  I downed the stuff so fast I almost forgot about the horrid aftertaste!
[If the party has visited the ruins of Saradush] Saradush was destroyed!
HULL: <Hull sighs and shakes his head.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Holding my breath and trusting that someone else would get me out of there was worth it then.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: That container -did- smell surprisingly musty, though from the little I breathed in.  Better use Prestidigitation and some thorough washing to prevent it from spreading!
That’s all for now.  Maybe we’ll talk again later.
<If Hull isn’t in the party.>
HULL: Kid, I’m ready to help you finish your destiny!  Let’s make history together!
Before we regroup, have you seriously considered venturing with Volo or Drizzt or Elminster instead?
HULL: All of them are great at what they do, kid, but -so are you!-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I know, kid, that you may think us lucky to be alive, or that I woulda picked Drizzt over you.  I still appreciate all of them, but I chose to be a stand-in for Gorion and I’m not quittin’ ‘til the job’s done!
Sure!  Let’s regroup!
HULL: <Hull winks at <CHARNAME.>>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Let’s finish this fight!  <Hull rejoins the group.  End dialog.>
Maybe later, Hull.
HULL: <Hull’s eyes narrow at you.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid?  C’mon!  Let’s join up ‘n’ finish this job!
Alright, teammate.  Let’s finish what we started!
HULL: -That’s- the spirit!  Let’s go!  <Hull rejoins the group.  End dialog.>
I’m not ready for us to regroup yet, Hull.
HULL: <Hull looks down, his face turns red, and tears stream down his face.>  <End dialog.>
ToB: VOLO @ WATCHER’S KEEP
I have plans for Volo to be recruitable in ToB.  Consider this a goal that need not be immediately fulfilled with the initial release of this mod.
[If Hull rescued Volo from Watcher’s Keep] Volo’s Dialog at Watcher’s Keep (Post-Rescue)
VOLO: Well, my friend, the air around Watcher’s Keep is -far- fresher than that arid desert of Saradush.  I thank all of you again for your aid in my rescue!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Ah, but anyway, you didn’t come here to hear me talk about that.  How can I help you?
Join me, Volo.  Be my chronicler and together we’ll make history!
VOLO: <CHARNAME>, your request honors me!  With me as your historian, you make history and I write it down for the masses to enjoy!  War among godlings is coming and -you’re- part of it!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Before we head out, let me change my clothes.  I don’t want to dirty my favorite leisure outfit!
<End dialog.  Volo changes his clothes into a typical Bard outfit (blue major, white minor) and joins the party!>
VOLO: However, at this time, I must respectfully decline.  I have a feeling that what happened in Saradush is but a -taste- of what is to come in the realms!  I am no godspawn as should be evident.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: But if my decision changes, I may still be here.  In fact, finding -you- may be easier due to all the carnage and destruction in your wake!
What do you plan to do next if you don’t join me?
VOLO: For now, I plan to take a rest to ensure that all my notes are accurate before moving on.  I was pondering where.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: I had been meaning to tour the planes.  I heard Barovia in Ravenloft was a -fascinating- place.  Perhaps I’ll even be invited to dinner with their ruler, Strahd von Barovich!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Is it ‘van’ or ‘von?’  And is his last name Barovich?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: <Volo shrugs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: I’ll have time to look it up before I head there.
Ravenloft?  The plane of UNDEAD?  That sounds dangerous!
VOLO: My friend, the greater the danger, the better the story!  “How did Volo escape -this time?-  Find out in my newest book!”
Volo, go right ahead.  I might even buy a copy!
VOLO: <Volo smiles.>  Your enthusiasm warms my heart!
How do you plan to get to Ravenloft and back?
VOLO: I plan to do some research on portals.  Maybe pay a mage to take me there if I can.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Then again, it would be better in the long term if I just learned how to Plane Shift myself.  I just haven’t found any scrolls of that lately, not even in Candlekeep!
Let’s discuss something else.
VOLO: <Volo shrugs.>  Suit yourself!  <Return to the previous level of dialog.>
Volo, remind me of what you plan to write about one of my companions or me.
VOLO: Certainly!  Who?
<SHOW LIST OF PARTY MEMBERS AND REPLY JUST LIKE IN SARADUSH!>
Volo, what books have you written?
VOLO: Plenty!  You may have heard of them.  They -are- rather famous.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: I wrote a guide to the North, Cormyr, the Dalelands, the Sword Coast, and Waterdeep, plus some other, lesser-known works.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: I liked your guide to the Sword Coast the most.  Very inspirational, even if some of the prices changed.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: <Volo smiles and shrugs.>  Certainly!  I -love- my fans!
<If Trinden is in the party.>
TRINDEN: While I have not studied any of your works, I too am an accomplished author, having written my biography and a brief history of my home plane over various volumes.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Ah, a biographer and a -historian-, then!  Be sure you leave copies in Candlekeep for safe keeping for generations to come!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: <Trinden nods.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: <CHARNAME>, what do you think of my work?  Please, be honest.
<Pick one.>
I don’t know enough about it to say.
VOLO: <Volo shrugs.>  I know that not everyone has read my books.  I’m... working on that.
Your stuff’s trash, Volo.  Just be glad we didn’t save you so you could keep writing that drivel!
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: Hey!  Be nice!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: <Volo sighs and shakes his head.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: My fiends, I’m sorry you felt that way - but maybe that’s the news I needed to hear.
It’s overrated.
VOLO: <Volo smirks.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Yes, <CHARNAME>, I have heard that one -many- times before.
The fact that Elminster called out how much you seemed to miss in your guides tells me that you should be -his- scribe!
VOLO: <Volo looks at you, astonished, and blinks!>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: You read the foreword then?  How encouraging!  So few people actually read those!
My feelings are mixed.  Nothing especially bad or good.  <shrug>
VOLO: <Volo smiles and shrugs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: I know my body of work is broad.  Do let me know if you have a more specific opinion!
I liked the idea, but it just didn’t feel complete enough.  Are you trying to help someone just passing through these places or write an encyclopedia that covers everything?  Your works seemed stuck somewhere in the middle.
VOLO: <Volo looks at you in contemplation.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: What -excellent- wording!  Ahem.  I was normally focusing on what -I- found most appealing, mostly from the perspective of a traveler or a layman with a hint of a scholarly review.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: If I could convince certain members of Candlekeep to formally sponsor an in-depth study led by me, I would -gladly- accept the opportunity - assuming it doesn’t interfere with chronicling -your- most interesting history!
I’m willing to overlook some of the faults and credit you that you actually -did- what others wouldn’t do!  You went out into the world, explored, and wrote about it!
VOLO: <Volo bows.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Thank you!  Thank you!
I have been waiting -so long- to meet you in person!  Can I get your autograph?
VOLO: <Volo grins.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Surely, my friend!  Surely!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Sorry to say I don’t have any spare copies of my books on me, but I can offer you this note signed by me.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: <Volo quickly writes a note on a page from his book he was using to record your journey then rips it out and offers it to you.>
<The party gains item “Volo’s Handwritten Note to <CHARNAME>.”>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: That’s the most valuable signature you’ll get today!  It may be worth some coin at a library or pawn shop!
Volo, can you spare any magical scrolls or spellbooks by chance, or any other items that could help me in my journey?
<If Volo has any of the below listed scrolls, he offers all of them.>
VOLO: Here, <CHARNAME>.  I happened to obtain these in my travels.
<The party receives these scrolls:
-Pierce Shield x2
-Remove Magic x2
-Ruby Ray of Reversal x2
-Spell Shield x2
-Stone to Flesh x2 (green scrolls).>
<If not.>
VOLO: <CHARNAME>, I apologize, but I have nothing to spare beyond my gratitude.  Besides, you’re just about a god already!  Surely you can handle yourself!
Volo, this is where we part ways.
VOLO: Ah, well, <CHARNAME>, it is.  I had been meaning to study Watcher’s Keep some more to include it in a future book, and I suppose I should get to work on that... after I finish with -your- story.  You are a -legend- among us, <CHARNAME>.  Never forget that.
-NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: And if you change your mind in the near future, I may still be here.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Grace be to you on fulfilling your destiny!
<END DIALOG.>
ToB: NEERA’S COMPANION QUESTS
Dialog with Szass Tam in the Thay Arena
SZASS TAM: Good.  There you are.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Edwin is in the party.>
EDWIN: <Edwin quietly sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: I read the report regarding that Rashemi witch.  Very impressive how you conspired with another Necromancer to have her soul removed with no traces to our organization.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: Very tactful.  Very -professional.-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
EDWIN: Thank you, sir.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Minsc is also in the party.>
MINSC: So, -you- are the Wizard that wanted Dynaheir dead?  Boo’s breath smells of blood - the blood of vengeance!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: And you, Minsc, were her protector.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
MINSC: And Boo!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: Worry not.  I did not order your Dynaheir dead.  The one who did has been... reassigned.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NEERA: Hold your horses there, Minsc.  And your hamsters.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NEERA: Barging into Thay like this and demanding vengeance in front of a high-ranking Red Wizard is gonna end badly for you.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NEERA: And maybe also me by association.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: <Szass Tam looks at his guests, amused.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<Regardless of whether Edwin & Minsc are in the group.>
SZASS TAM: Now, for the business at hand.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Baeloth is in the party.>
BAELOTH: Let’s not belabor the business! (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: Baeloth Barrityl of the Black Pits, I see.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: So, you have finally arrived.  I appreciate your contributions to our arena.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: <Baeloth grins.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Certainly, sir!  I had heard Dennaton wanted a word with me.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: In a moment.  Let us finish our business here.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: A sound suggestion. (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: In the meantime, take advantage of the merchants here.  Make sure to rest.  You will be unable to do so once inside the estate.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: Well, everyone, Szass Tam just made us an offer we can’t refuse.  Let’s listen to the nice Lich.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: <Szass Tam smiles and nods at Hull.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Baeloth is in the area regardless of Hull.>
BAELOTH: Ta-ta my tenacious troopers!  Battlemaster Baeloth will be back after a word from our sponsors.  <Baeloth uses Dimension Door to warp away.>
<END DIALOG.>
After Killing Vicross in her Estate
<Once combat is over.>
<If Baeloth is in the party.>
BAELOTH: And take that, vile villain! (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Volo is in the party.>
VOLO: And through a series of fortunate events, our heroes again proved triumphant - this time over a secret Wild Mage of Thay!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Drizzt is in the party.>
DRIZZT: ‘Tis a pity it has come to this.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NEERA: Serves you right!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NEERA: I mean... does it?  You managed to hide your wild magic abilities enough to become a high-ranking caster while the rest of us suffered!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NEERA: I kinda pity you and I’m not sure if I should hate you anymore!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NEERA: Why am I talking to a corpse?!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: Let it go, girl.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Trinden is in the party.>
TRINDEN: Either animate the corpse or mangle it beyond all ability to be revived!  Prevent an unwanted legacy!  They would do the same to you!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NEERA: I... don’t like agreeing to that, but who am I to argue with a god in training?
Immediately After Ringing the Bell in Vicross’s Estate
<Before Szass Tam warps in.>
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: Ding, dong the witch is dead!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Imoen is also in the party.>
IMOEN: <Imoen chuckles.>
<Regardless of Imoen’s presence.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Baeloth is in the party.>
BAELOTH: If we're to wait here, I might begin a brand-new business. (from here)
<Regardless of Baeloth’s presence.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Volo is in the party.>
VOLO: Oh, don’t mind me.  I’m simply checking my notes.
<Regardless of Volo’s presence.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NEERA: I’m not sure -how- I should feel!  She was a self-loathing hypocrite, but also my family in a way.  A strange, twisted way filled with bird pellets.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NEERA: It’s not like wild mages are as common as copper in these parts.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NEERA: Better not think about it and instead think about something else.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NEERA: Like killing everything in our way.
<END DIALOG.  SZASS TAM WARPS IN.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: Splendid.  You have done it, <CHARNAME>.  For that, I thank you.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Trinden is in the party.>
TRINDEN: So, the -schemer- returns.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: I needed you to take care of Vicross discreetly, so that no one might know my role in her demise.  As long as you live, there is evidence against me.  I must tie up all loose ends.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Volo is in the party.>
VOLO: And so, for probably not the first time this week, a villain believes he is superior to Volothamp Geddarn by using him as an -exterminator- or a -distinguished- lackey!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party, regardless of Volo’s presence.>
HULL: Szass Tam, sir, I must say something.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You are the STUPIDEST archmage I have EVER met!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: All YOU had to do was keep our agreement!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Trinden is also in the party.>
TRINDEN: From where I am, a verbal agreement between leaders is as binding as a written contract.  Expect a severe punishment for this -breach- of contract.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Yeah!  I’m glad we agree, Trinden!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<Regardless of Trinden’s presence.>
HULL: Jon Irenicus was a -far- better Necromancer and more of a pain in my ass than you’ll EVER be!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: So much for ‘politeness!’
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Baeloth is in the party, regardless of others.>
BAELOTH: Oohoohoohoo, I'm gonna work out some anger on you. (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
You -really- think you can take on a child of the GOD of MURDER?  Bring it ON!
<Szass Tam goes hostile.>
You seek violence?  I propose a counteroffer that better suits -all- of us.
SZASS TAM: <Szass Tam narrows his gaze at <CHARNAME> with suspicion.>
[If Edwin isn’t in the area] You’re a powerful and resourceful man, Szass Tam.  No one in my party has a particularly strong caring about what happens in Thay, and you’re a powerful enough being that you have plausible deniability to weave whatever story you want.  Buy our silence and we leave here like the civilized beings you initially treated us as.  I assure you it will be less trouble than trying to fight.
SZASS TAM: Why do you believe I would agree to your terms?
[If Baeloth is in the area] You wouldn’t try killing Baeloth here, your new employee, would you?  Those in the arena would find his absence suspicious.  He’s also an -expert- at coming back from the dead and dealing with genies, having run an arena in the Underdark where he handled beings about as powerful as you.
BAELOTH: Mmmm? (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: A fair point, <CHARNAME>.  Dennaton was interested in that lately.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: What would satisfy you?
100,000 gold - immediately payable in full.
SZASS TAM: A significant sum, but one with which I would buy your silence in the strictest sense.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: Very well, <CHARNAME>.  I shall grant you your request on the condition that if you break our arrangement here, I reserve the right to execute you - or worse - for treason.  Do we have a deal?
We do.
SZASS TAM: Good.  I shall send you back now along with your payment.
<The party is warped back to the Forest of Tethyr Clearing where they were when Neera cast Reckless Dweomer and warped to Thay.>
<100,000G is added to the party’s funds.    The party gains 35,000 quest EXP and successful quest completion of Destroying the Order of Eight Staves!>
Wait!  Let me consider something else to ask for instead.
SZASS TAM: Be quick about your business, <CHARNAME>.  I am immortal, but I am not fond of wasting any time.
A Cloak of Mirroring.
SZASS TAM: You are right to seek your safety in a place like this.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: Very well, <CHARNAME>.  I shall grant you your request on the condition that if you break our arrangement here, I reserve the right to execute you - or worse - for treason.  Do we have a deal?
We do.
SZASS TAM: Good.  I shall send you back now along with your payment.
<The party is warped back to the Forest of Tethyr Clearing where they were when Neera cast Reckless Dweomer and warped to Thay.>
<A Cloak of Reflection spawns on the floor beside CHARNAME’s feet.  The party gains 35,000 quest EXP and successful quest completion of Destroying the Order of Eight Staves!>
Wait!  Let me consider something else to ask for instead.
SZASS TAM: Be quick about your business, <CHARNAME>.  I am immortal, but I am not fond of wasting any time.
The clothes off your back.
SZASS TAM: Either you seek to humiliate me or you know -exactly- what it is I wear.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: I can offer you my spare robe, alike in every way except that I am not wearing it now.  Disrobing for you might cause unwanted attention for us.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: Very well, <CHARNAME>.  I shall grant you your request on the condition that if you break our arrangement here, I reserve the right to execute you - or worse - for treason.  Do we have a deal?
We do.
SZASS TAM: Good.  I shall send you back now along with your payment.
<The party is warped back to the Forest of Tethyr Clearing where they were when Neera cast Reckless Dweomer and warped to Thay.>
<A Robe of Vecna spawns on the floor beside CHARNAME’s feet.  The party gains 35,000 quest EXP and successful quest completion of Destroying the Order of Eight Staves!>
Wait!  Let me consider something else to ask for instead.
SZASS TAM: Be quick about your business, <CHARNAME>.  I am immortal, but I am not fond of wasting any time.
A Staff of the Magi.
SZASS TAM: You ended the Order of Eight Staves just to request another?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: I understand your point.  This item is... quite the artifact.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: Very well, <CHARNAME>.  I shall grant you your request on the condition that if you break our arrangement here, I reserve the right to execute you - or worse - for treason.  Do we have a deal?
We do.
SZASS TAM: Good.  I shall send you back now along with your payment.
<The party is warped back to the Forest of Tethyr Clearing where they were when Neera cast Reckless Dweomer and warped to Thay.>
<A Staff of the Magi spawns on the floor beside CHARNAME’s feet.  The party gains 35,000 quest EXP and successful quest completion of Destroying the Order of Eight Staves!>
Wait!  Let me consider something else to ask for instead.
SZASS TAM: Be quick about your business, <CHARNAME>.  I am immortal, but I am not fond of wasting any time.
A Wand of Whips.
SZASS TAM: Very well, <CHARNAME>.  I shall grant you your request on the condition that if you break our arrangement here, I reserve the right to execute you - or worse - for treason.  Do we have a deal?
We do.
SZASS TAM: Good.  I shall send you back now along with your payment.
<The party is warped back to the Forest of Tethyr Clearing where they were when Neera cast Reckless Dweomer and warped to Thay.>
<A Wand of Whips spawns on the floor beside CHARNAME’s feet.  The party gains 35,000 quest EXP and successful quest completion of Destroying the Order of Eight Staves!>
Wait!  Let me consider something else to ask for instead.
SZASS TAM: Be quick about your business, <CHARNAME>.  I am immortal, but I am not fond of wasting any time.
[If Lichdom is installed] A Crown of the Lich
SZASS TAM: A fan of the Undead, I see.  Perhaps you admire my -superior- form.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: Very well, <CHARNAME>.  I shall grant you your request on the condition that if you break our arrangement here, I reserve the right to execute you - or worse - for treason.  Do we have a deal?
We do.
SZASS TAM: Good.  I shall send you back now along with your payment.
<The party is warped back to the Forest of Tethyr Clearing where they were when Neera cast Reckless Dweomer and warped to Thay.>
<A Crown of the Lich spawns on the floor beside CHARNAME’s feet.  The party gains 35,000 quest EXP and successful quest completion of Destroying the Order of Eight Staves!>
Wait!  Let me consider something else to ask for instead.
SZASS TAM: Be quick about your business, <CHARNAME>.  I am immortal, but I am not fond of wasting any time.
Your phylactery, of course!
SZASS TAM: Getting straight to the heart of the matter, I see, <CHARNAME>.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: This is one request I could grant, but choose not to.  I am sure you understand my concerns.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: What else would satisfy you?
I’m here for perhaps the most valuable currency of them all, a -favor- from -you,- Szass Tam.  I helped you fight your battles.  I want your help to fight mine.
SZASS TAM: Spoken like a true politician - or one who bargains with extraplanar creatures.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: I could spare a day of my time - 8 hours - to help you, but only -once.-  It must be in an area where I can reach.  Remote pockets of the universe and certain conditions will waste your opportunity.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: Very well, <CHARNAME>.  I shall grant you your request on the condition that if you break our arrangement here, I reserve the right to execute you - or worse - for treason.  Do we have a deal?
Only 1 day?!
SZASS TAM: What an apprentice can do in days or hours an archmage like myself can do -far- faster!
We do.
SZASS TAM: Good.  I shall send you back now along with your payment.
<The party is warped back to the Forest of Tethyr Clearing where they were when Neera cast Reckless Dweomer and warped to Thay.>
<A Szass Tam Beacon spawns on the floor beside CHARNAME’s feet.  The party gains 35,000 quest EXP and successful quest completion of Destroying the Order of Eight Staves!>
Wait!  Let me consider something else to ask for instead.
SZASS TAM: Be quick about your business, <CHARNAME>.  I am immortal, but I am not fond of wasting any time.
[If Drizzt is in the area] Drizzt here helped clean up your mess.  Do you -want- to be known as the one who rallied the nations of the realms against you for ending his legacy and killing their hero?
DRIZZT: <Drizzt glares at Szass Tam!>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: I understand your point, <CHARNAME>.  Our intention is to prevent events such as this.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: What would satisfy you?
100,000 gold - immediately payable in full.
SZASS TAM: A significant sum, but one with which I would buy your silence in the strictest sense.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: Very well, <CHARNAME>.  I shall grant you your request on the condition that if you break our arrangement here, I reserve the right to execute you - or worse - for treason.  Do we have a deal?
We do.
SZASS TAM: Good.  I shall send you back now along with your payment.
<The party is warped back to the Forest of Tethyr Clearing where they were when Neera cast Reckless Dweomer and warped to Thay.>
<100,000G is added to the party’s funds.    The party gains 35,000 quest EXP and successful quest completion of Destroying the Order of Eight Staves!>
Wait!  Let me consider something else to ask for instead.
SZASS TAM: Be quick about your business, <CHARNAME>.  I am immortal, but I am not fond of wasting any time.
A Cloak of Mirroring.
SZASS TAM: You are right to seek your safety in a place like this.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: Very well, <CHARNAME>.  I shall grant you your request on the condition that if you break our arrangement here, I reserve the right to execute you - or worse - for treason.  Do we have a deal?
We do.
SZASS TAM: Good.  I shall send you back now along with your payment.
<The party is warped back to the Forest of Tethyr Clearing where they were when Neera cast Reckless Dweomer and warped to Thay.>
<A Cloak of Reflection spawns on the floor beside CHARNAME’s feet.  The party gains 35,000 quest EXP and successful quest completion of Destroying the Order of Eight Staves!>
Wait!  Let me consider something else to ask for instead.
SZASS TAM: Be quick about your business, <CHARNAME>.  I am immortal, but I am not fond of wasting any time.
The clothes off your back.
SZASS TAM: Either you seek to humiliate me or you know -exactly- what it is I wear.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: I can offer you my spare robe, alike in every way except that I am not wearing it now.  Disrobing for you might cause unwanted attention for us.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: Very well, <CHARNAME>.  I shall grant you your request on the condition that if you break our arrangement here, I reserve the right to execute you - or worse - for treason.  Do we have a deal?
We do.
SZASS TAM: Good.  I shall send you back now along with your payment.
<The party is warped back to the Forest of Tethyr Clearing where they were when Neera cast Reckless Dweomer and warped to Thay.>
<A Robe of Vecna spawns on the floor beside CHARNAME’s feet.  The party gains 35,000 quest EXP and successful quest completion of Destroying the Order of Eight Staves!>
Wait!  Let me consider something else to ask for instead.
SZASS TAM: Be quick about your business, <CHARNAME>.  I am immortal, but I am not fond of wasting any time.
A Staff of the Magi.
SZASS TAM: You ended the Order of Eight Staves just to request another?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: I understand your point.  This item is... quite the artifact.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: Very well, <CHARNAME>.  I shall grant you your request on the condition that if you break our arrangement here, I reserve the right to execute you - or worse - for treason.  Do we have a deal?
We do.
SZASS TAM: Good.  I shall send you back now along with your payment.
<The party is warped back to the Forest of Tethyr Clearing where they were when Neera cast Reckless Dweomer and warped to Thay.>
<A Staff of the Magi spawns on the floor beside CHARNAME’s feet.  The party gains 35,000 quest EXP and successful quest completion of Destroying the Order of Eight Staves!>
Wait!  Let me consider something else to ask for instead.
SZASS TAM: Be quick about your business, <CHARNAME>.  I am immortal, but I am not fond of wasting any time.
A Wand of Whips.
SZASS TAM: Very well, <CHARNAME>.  I shall grant you your request on the condition that if you break our arrangement here, I reserve the right to execute you - or worse - for treason.  Do we have a deal?
We do.
SZASS TAM: Good.  I shall send you back now along with your payment.
<The party is warped back to the Forest of Tethyr Clearing where they were when Neera cast Reckless Dweomer and warped to Thay.>
<A Wand of Whips spawns on the floor beside CHARNAME’s feet.  The party gains 35,000 quest EXP and successful quest completion of Destroying the Order of Eight Staves!>
Wait!  Let me consider something else to ask for instead.
SZASS TAM: Be quick about your business, <CHARNAME>.  I am immortal, but I am not fond of wasting any time.
[If Lichdom is installed] A Crown of the Lich
SZASS TAM: A fan of the Undead, I see.  Perhaps you admire my -superior- form.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: Very well, <CHARNAME>.  I shall grant you your request on the condition that if you break our arrangement here, I reserve the right to execute you - or worse - for treason.  Do we have a deal?
We do.
SZASS TAM: Good.  I shall send you back now along with your payment.
<The party is warped back to the Forest of Tethyr Clearing where they were when Neera cast Reckless Dweomer and warped to Thay.>
<A Crown of the Lich spawns on the floor beside CHARNAME’s feet.  The party gains 35,000 quest EXP and successful quest completion of Destroying the Order of Eight Staves!>
Wait!  Let me consider something else to ask for instead.
SZASS TAM: Be quick about your business, <CHARNAME>.  I am immortal, but I am not fond of wasting any time.
Your phylactery, of course!
SZASS TAM: Getting straight to the heart of the matter, I see, <CHARNAME>.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: This is one request I could grant, but choose not to.  I am sure you understand my concerns.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: What else would satisfy you?
I’m here for perhaps the most valuable currency of them all, a -favor- from -you,- Szass Tam.  I helped you fight your battles.  I want your help to fight mine.
SZASS TAM: Spoken like a true politician - or one who bargains with extraplanar creatures.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: I could spare a day of my time - 8 hours - to help you, but only -once.-  It must be in an area where I can reach.  Remote pockets of the universe and certain conditions will waste your opportunity.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: Very well, <CHARNAME>.  I shall grant you your request on the condition that if you break our arrangement here, I reserve the right to execute you - or worse - for treason.  Do we have a deal?
Only 1 day?!
SZASS TAM: What an apprentice can do in days or hours an archmage like myself can do -far- faster!
We do.
SZASS TAM: Good.  I shall send you back now along with your payment.
<The party is warped back to the Forest of Tethyr Clearing where they were when Neera cast Reckless Dweomer and warped to Thay.>
<A Szass Tam Beacon spawns on the floor beside CHARNAME’s feet.  The party gains 35,000 quest EXP and successful quest completion of Destroying the Order of Eight Staves!>
Wait!  Let me consider something else to ask for instead.
SZASS TAM: Be quick about your business, <CHARNAME>.  I am immortal, but I am not fond of wasting any time.
[If Trinden is in the area] Trinden here has taken the powers of a god of his world for himself.  Are you -sure- you want to provoke him to violence?
TRINDEN: I can be -quite- civil, but if you interfere with me as you have proposed, I will -delight- in your utter -destruction!-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: <Trinden grins at Szass Tam as he loudly cracks his knuckles.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: You... are an anomaly, Trinden, an unknown quantity.  I am not one to interfere in the affairs of the divine.  My power is from another source.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: <Trinden raises his eyebrow as he looks intently at Szass Tam’s eye sockets with -supreme- confidence.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: Magic solves everything, violence solves everything, and money solves everything.  Which will you choose?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: We have already agreed to buy your silence - unless you disturb the peace.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: Good.  I’m glad we came to such an -amicable- arrangement.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: The question remains:  What shall we obtain as payment from our benefactor here?
100,000 gold - immediately payable in full.
SZASS TAM: A significant sum, but one with which I would buy your silence in the strictest sense.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: Very well, <CHARNAME>.  I shall grant you your request on the condition that if you break our arrangement here, I reserve the right to execute you - or worse - for treason.  Do we have a deal?
We do.
SZASS TAM: Good.  I shall send you back now along with your payment.
<The party is warped back to the Forest of Tethyr Clearing where they were when Neera cast Reckless Dweomer and warped to Thay.>
<100,000G is added to the party’s funds.    The party gains 35,000 quest EXP and successful quest completion of Destroying the Order of Eight Staves!>
Wait!  Let me consider something else to ask for instead.
SZASS TAM: Be quick about your business, <CHARNAME>.  I am immortal, but I am not fond of wasting any time.
A Cloak of Mirroring.
SZASS TAM: You are right to seek your safety in a place like this.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: Very well, <CHARNAME>.  I shall grant you your request on the condition that if you break our arrangement here, I reserve the right to execute you - or worse - for treason.  Do we have a deal?
We do.
SZASS TAM: Good.  I shall send you back now along with your payment.
<The party is warped back to the Forest of Tethyr Clearing where they were when Neera cast Reckless Dweomer and warped to Thay.>
<A Cloak of Reflection spawns on the floor beside CHARNAME’s feet.  The party gains 35,000 quest EXP and successful quest completion of Destroying the Order of Eight Staves!>
Wait!  Let me consider something else to ask for instead.
SZASS TAM: Be quick about your business, <CHARNAME>.  I am immortal, but I am not fond of wasting any time.
The clothes off your back.
SZASS TAM: Either you seek to humiliate me or you know -exactly- what it is I wear.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: I can offer you my spare robe, alike in every way except that I am not wearing it now.  Disrobing for you might cause unwanted attention for us.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: Very well, <CHARNAME>.  I shall grant you your request on the condition that if you break our arrangement here, I reserve the right to execute you - or worse - for treason.  Do we have a deal?
We do.
SZASS TAM: Good.  I shall send you back now along with your payment.
<The party is warped back to the Forest of Tethyr Clearing where they were when Neera cast Reckless Dweomer and warped to Thay.>
<A Robe of Vecna spawns on the floor beside CHARNAME’s feet.  The party gains 35,000 quest EXP and successful quest completion of Destroying the Order of Eight Staves!>
Wait!  Let me consider something else to ask for instead.
SZASS TAM: Be quick about your business, <CHARNAME>.  I am immortal, but I am not fond of wasting any time.
A Staff of the Magi.
SZASS TAM: You ended the Order of Eight Staves just to request another?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: I understand your point.  This item is... quite the artifact.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: Very well, <CHARNAME>.  I shall grant you your request on the condition that if you break our arrangement here, I reserve the right to execute you - or worse - for treason.  Do we have a deal?
We do.
SZASS TAM: Good.  I shall send you back now along with your payment.
<The party is warped back to the Forest of Tethyr Clearing where they were when Neera cast Reckless Dweomer and warped to Thay.>
<A Staff of the Magi spawns on the floor beside CHARNAME’s feet.  The party gains 35,000 quest EXP and successful quest completion of Destroying the Order of Eight Staves!>
Wait!  Let me consider something else to ask for instead.
SZASS TAM: Be quick about your business, <CHARNAME>.  I am immortal, but I am not fond of wasting any time.
A Wand of Whips.
SZASS TAM: Very well, <CHARNAME>.  I shall grant you your request on the condition that if you break our arrangement here, I reserve the right to execute you - or worse - for treason.  Do we have a deal?
We do.
SZASS TAM: Good.  I shall send you back now along with your payment.
<The party is warped back to the Forest of Tethyr Clearing where they were when Neera cast Reckless Dweomer and warped to Thay.>
<A Wand of Whips spawns on the floor beside CHARNAME’s feet.  The party gains 35,000 quest EXP and successful quest completion of Destroying the Order of Eight Staves!>
Wait!  Let me consider something else to ask for instead.
SZASS TAM: Be quick about your business, <CHARNAME>.  I am immortal, but I am not fond of wasting any time.
[If Lichdom is installed] A Crown of the Lich
SZASS TAM: A fan of the Undead, I see.  Perhaps you admire my -superior- form.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: Very well, <CHARNAME>.  I shall grant you your request on the condition that if you break our arrangement here, I reserve the right to execute you - or worse - for treason.  Do we have a deal?
We do.
SZASS TAM: Good.  I shall send you back now along with your payment.
<The party is warped back to the Forest of Tethyr Clearing where they were when Neera cast Reckless Dweomer and warped to Thay.>
<A Crown of the Lich spawns on the floor beside CHARNAME’s feet.  The party gains 35,000 quest EXP and successful quest completion of Destroying the Order of Eight Staves!>
Wait!  Let me consider something else to ask for instead.
SZASS TAM: Be quick about your business, <CHARNAME>.  I am immortal, but I am not fond of wasting any time.
Your phylactery, of course!
SZASS TAM: Getting straight to the heart of the matter, I see, <CHARNAME>.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: This is one request I could grant, but choose not to.  I am sure you understand my concerns.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: What else would satisfy you?
I’m here for perhaps the most valuable currency of them all, a -favor- from -you,- Szass Tam.  I helped you fight your battles.  I want your help to fight mine.
SZASS TAM: Spoken like a true politician - or one who bargains with extraplanar creatures.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: I could spare a day of my time - 8 hours - to help you, but only -once.-  It must be in an area where I can reach.  Remote pockets of the universe and certain conditions will waste your opportunity.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: Very well, <CHARNAME>.  I shall grant you your request on the condition that if you break our arrangement here, I reserve the right to execute you - or worse - for treason.  Do we have a deal?
Only 1 day?!
SZASS TAM: What an apprentice can do in days or hours an archmage like myself can do -far- faster!
We do.
SZASS TAM: Good.  I shall send you back now along with your payment.
<The party is warped back to the Forest of Tethyr Clearing where they were when Neera cast Reckless Dweomer and warped to Thay.>
<A Szass Tam Beacon spawns on the floor beside CHARNAME’s feet.  The party gains 35,000 quest EXP and successful quest completion of Destroying the Order of Eight Staves!>
Wait!  Let me consider something else to ask for instead.
SZASS TAM: Be quick about your business, <CHARNAME>.  I am immortal, but I am not fond of wasting any time.
[If Volo is in the area] Volo here is somewhat famous throughout the realms as being an entertainer and a braggart.  Surely, he could write an exaggerated account of recent events that favors you.  Most people would disregard his work as amusement at best.
VOLO: Well... ahem.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Upon reflection, your words -have- been a painfully accurate reflection of how many throughout the realms have viewed my works.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: So, -you- are the world-renowned author Volo.  I somehow expected someone... taller.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Volothamp Geddarm.  Pleased to make your acquaintance, sir.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: <Volo dramatically bows.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: I am well aware that Elminster of Shadowdale is your book editor.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Yes, sir.  He took it upon himself to ‘Do the realms a favor and protect Volo from himself.’
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: And is Elminster expecting an accurate account of your travels?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Yes, sir.  He believes this Bhaalspawn Saga as we’ve decided to call it is an era of -dire importance- and one of the most important in the -history- of the realms!  Whatever happens here will shape our world for -ages- to come!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: <Szass Tam narrows his gaze and Volo and ponders a moment.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: Very well.  Have your accurate account of what happened here.  By the time Elminster reads it, I will have everything sorted out here.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Thank you, sir!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: Now, what would satisfy you until that happens?
100,000 gold - immediately payable in full.
SZASS TAM: A significant sum, but one with which I would buy your silence in the strictest sense.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: Very well, <CHARNAME>.  I shall grant you your request on the condition that if you break our arrangement here, I reserve the right to execute you - or worse - for treason.  Do we have a deal?
We do.
SZASS TAM: Good.  I shall send you back now along with your payment.
<The party is warped back to the Forest of Tethyr Clearing where they were when Neera cast Reckless Dweomer and warped to Thay.>
<100,000G is added to the party’s funds.    The party gains 35,000 quest EXP and successful quest completion of Destroying the Order of Eight Staves!>
Wait!  Let me consider something else to ask for instead.
SZASS TAM: Be quick about your business, <CHARNAME>.  I am immortal, but I am not fond of wasting any time.
A Cloak of Mirroring.
SZASS TAM: You are right to seek your safety in a place like this.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: Very well, <CHARNAME>.  I shall grant you your request on the condition that if you break our arrangement here, I reserve the right to execute you - or worse - for treason.  Do we have a deal?
We do.
SZASS TAM: Good.  I shall send you back now along with your payment.
<The party is warped back to the Forest of Tethyr Clearing where they were when Neera cast Reckless Dweomer and warped to Thay.>
<A Cloak of Reflection spawns on the floor beside CHARNAME’s feet.  The party gains 35,000 quest EXP and successful quest completion of Destroying the Order of Eight Staves!>
Wait!  Let me consider something else to ask for instead.
SZASS TAM: Be quick about your business, <CHARNAME>.  I am immortal, but I am not fond of wasting any time.
The clothes off your back.
SZASS TAM: Either you seek to humiliate me or you know -exactly- what it is I wear.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: I can offer you my spare robe, alike in every way except that I am not wearing it now.  Disrobing for you might cause unwanted attention for us.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: Very well, <CHARNAME>.  I shall grant you your request on the condition that if you break our arrangement here, I reserve the right to execute you - or worse - for treason.  Do we have a deal?
We do.
SZASS TAM: Good.  I shall send you back now along with your payment.
<The party is warped back to the Forest of Tethyr Clearing where they were when Neera cast Reckless Dweomer and warped to Thay.>
<A Robe of Vecna spawns on the floor beside CHARNAME’s feet.  The party gains 35,000 quest EXP and successful quest completion of Destroying the Order of Eight Staves!>
Wait!  Let me consider something else to ask for instead.
SZASS TAM: Be quick about your business, <CHARNAME>.  I am immortal, but I am not fond of wasting any time.
A Staff of the Magi.
SZASS TAM: You ended the Order of Eight Staves just to request another?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: I understand your point.  This item is... quite the artifact.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: Very well, <CHARNAME>.  I shall grant you your request on the condition that if you break our arrangement here, I reserve the right to execute you - or worse - for treason.  Do we have a deal?
We do.
SZASS TAM: Good.  I shall send you back now along with your payment.
<The party is warped back to the Forest of Tethyr Clearing where they were when Neera cast Reckless Dweomer and warped to Thay.>
<A Staff of the Magi spawns on the floor beside CHARNAME’s feet.  The party gains 35,000 quest EXP and successful quest completion of Destroying the Order of Eight Staves!>
Wait!  Let me consider something else to ask for instead.
SZASS TAM: Be quick about your business, <CHARNAME>.  I am immortal, but I am not fond of wasting any time.
A Wand of Whips.
SZASS TAM: Very well, <CHARNAME>.  I shall grant you your request on the condition that if you break our arrangement here, I reserve the right to execute you - or worse - for treason.  Do we have a deal?
We do.
SZASS TAM: Good.  I shall send you back now along with your payment.
<The party is warped back to the Forest of Tethyr Clearing where they were when Neera cast Reckless Dweomer and warped to Thay.>
<A Wand of Whips spawns on the floor beside CHARNAME’s feet.  The party gains 35,000 quest EXP and successful quest completion of Destroying the Order of Eight Staves!>
Wait!  Let me consider something else to ask for instead.
SZASS TAM: Be quick about your business, <CHARNAME>.  I am immortal, but I am not fond of wasting any time.
[If Lichdom is installed] A Crown of the Lich
SZASS TAM: A fan of the Undead, I see.  Perhaps you admire my -superior- form.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: Very well, <CHARNAME>.  I shall grant you your request on the condition that if you break our arrangement here, I reserve the right to execute you - or worse - for treason.  Do we have a deal?
We do.
SZASS TAM: Good.  I shall send you back now along with your payment.
<The party is warped back to the Forest of Tethyr Clearing where they were when Neera cast Reckless Dweomer and warped to Thay.>
<A Crown of the Lich spawns on the floor beside CHARNAME’s feet.  The party gains 35,000 quest EXP and successful quest completion of Destroying the Order of Eight Staves!>
Wait!  Let me consider something else to ask for instead.
SZASS TAM: Be quick about your business, <CHARNAME>.  I am immortal, but I am not fond of wasting any time.
Your phylactery, of course!
SZASS TAM: Getting straight to the heart of the matter, I see, <CHARNAME>.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: This is one request I could grant, but choose not to.  I am sure you understand my concerns.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: What else would satisfy you?
I’m here for perhaps the most valuable currency of them all, a -favor- from -you,- Szass Tam.  I helped you fight your battles.  I want your help to fight mine.
SZASS TAM: Spoken like a true politician - or one who bargains with extraplanar creatures.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: I could spare a day of my time - 8 hours - to help you, but only -once.-  It must be in an area where I can reach.  Remote pockets of the universe and certain conditions will waste your opportunity.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: Very well, <CHARNAME>.  I shall grant you your request on the condition that if you break our arrangement here, I reserve the right to execute you - or worse - for treason.  Do we have a deal?
Only 1 day?!
SZASS TAM: What an apprentice can do in days or hours an archmage like myself can do -far- faster!
We do.
SZASS TAM: Good.  I shall send you back now along with your payment.
<The party is warped back to the Forest of Tethyr Clearing where they were when Neera cast Reckless Dweomer and warped to Thay.>
<A Szass Tam Beacon spawns on the floor beside CHARNAME’s feet.  The party gains 35,000 quest EXP and successful quest completion of Destroying the Order of Eight Staves!>
Wait!  Let me consider something else to ask for instead.
SZASS TAM: Be quick about your business, <CHARNAME>.  I am immortal, but I am not fond of wasting any time.
[If Lichdom is installed and CHARNAME is a Lich] You’re a Lich.  I’m a Lich.  Fighting each other is fruitless and simply costs us resources better put elsewhere.  Let us instead deal with each other civilly.
SZASS TAM: I see your point, <CHARNAME>.  We are at a stalemate.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: Let us settle this as civilized beings, <CHARNAME>.  What would satisfy you to keep this matter civil?
100,000 gold - immediately payable in full.
SZASS TAM: A significant sum, but one with which I would buy your silence in the strictest sense.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: Very well, <CHARNAME>.  I shall grant you your request on the condition that if you break our arrangement here, I reserve the right to execute you - or worse - for treason.  Do we have a deal?
We do.
SZASS TAM: Good.  I shall send you back now along with your payment.
<The party is warped back to the Forest of Tethyr Clearing where they were when Neera cast Reckless Dweomer and warped to Thay.>
<100,000G is added to the party’s funds.    The party gains 35,000 quest EXP and successful quest completion of Destroying the Order of Eight Staves!>
Wait!  Let me consider something else to ask for instead.
SZASS TAM: Be quick about your business, <CHARNAME>.  I am immortal, but I am not fond of wasting any time.
A Cloak of Mirroring.
SZASS TAM: You are right to seek your safety in a place like this.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: Very well, <CHARNAME>.  I shall grant you your request on the condition that if you break our arrangement here, I reserve the right to execute you - or worse - for treason.  Do we have a deal?
We do.
SZASS TAM: Good.  I shall send you back now along with your payment.
<The party is warped back to the Forest of Tethyr Clearing where they were when Neera cast Reckless Dweomer and warped to Thay.>
<A Cloak of Reflection spawns on the floor beside CHARNAME’s feet.  The party gains 35,000 quest EXP and successful quest completion of Destroying the Order of Eight Staves!>
Wait!  Let me consider something else to ask for instead.
SZASS TAM: Be quick about your business, <CHARNAME>.  I am immortal, but I am not fond of wasting any time.
The clothes off your back.
SZASS TAM: Either you seek to humiliate me or you know -exactly- what it is I wear.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: I can offer you my spare robe, alike in every way except that I am not wearing it now.  Disrobing for you might cause unwanted attention for us.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: Very well, <CHARNAME>.  I shall grant you your request on the condition that if you break our arrangement here, I reserve the right to execute you - or worse - for treason.  Do we have a deal?
We do.
SZASS TAM: Good.  I shall send you back now along with your payment.
<The party is warped back to the Forest of Tethyr Clearing where they were when Neera cast Reckless Dweomer and warped to Thay.>
<A Robe of Vecna spawns on the floor beside CHARNAME’s feet.  The party gains 35,000 quest EXP and successful quest completion of Destroying the Order of Eight Staves!>
Wait!  Let me consider something else to ask for instead.
SZASS TAM: Be quick about your business, <CHARNAME>.  I am immortal, but I am not fond of wasting any time.
A Staff of the Magi.
SZASS TAM: You ended the Order of Eight Staves just to request another?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: I understand your point.  This item is... quite the artifact.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: Very well, <CHARNAME>.  I shall grant you your request on the condition that if you break our arrangement here, I reserve the right to execute you - or worse - for treason.  Do we have a deal?
We do.
SZASS TAM: Good.  I shall send you back now along with your payment.
<The party is warped back to the Forest of Tethyr Clearing where they were when Neera cast Reckless Dweomer and warped to Thay.>
<A Staff of the Magi spawns on the floor beside CHARNAME’s feet.  The party gains 35,000 quest EXP and successful quest completion of Destroying the Order of Eight Staves!>
Wait!  Let me consider something else to ask for instead.
SZASS TAM: Be quick about your business, <CHARNAME>.  I am immortal, but I am not fond of wasting any time.
A Wand of Whips.
SZASS TAM: Very well, <CHARNAME>.  I shall grant you your request on the condition that if you break our arrangement here, I reserve the right to execute you - or worse - for treason.  Do we have a deal?
We do.
SZASS TAM: Good.  I shall send you back now along with your payment.
<The party is warped back to the Forest of Tethyr Clearing where they were when Neera cast Reckless Dweomer and warped to Thay.>
<A Wand of Whips spawns on the floor beside CHARNAME’s feet.  The party gains 35,000 quest EXP and successful quest completion of Destroying the Order of Eight Staves!>
Wait!  Let me consider something else to ask for instead.
SZASS TAM: Be quick about your business, <CHARNAME>.  I am immortal, but I am not fond of wasting any time.
[If Lichdom is installed] A Crown of the Lich
SZASS TAM: A fan of the Undead, I see.  Perhaps you admire my -superior- form.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: Very well, <CHARNAME>.  I shall grant you your request on the condition that if you break our arrangement here, I reserve the right to execute you - or worse - for treason.  Do we have a deal?
We do.
SZASS TAM: Good.  I shall send you back now along with your payment.
<The party is warped back to the Forest of Tethyr Clearing where they were when Neera cast Reckless Dweomer and warped to Thay.>
<A Crown of the Lich spawns on the floor beside CHARNAME’s feet.  The party gains 35,000 quest EXP and successful quest completion of Destroying the Order of Eight Staves!>
Wait!  Let me consider something else to ask for instead.
SZASS TAM: Be quick about your business, <CHARNAME>.  I am immortal, but I am not fond of wasting any time.
Your phylactery, of course!
SZASS TAM: Getting straight to the heart of the matter, I see, <CHARNAME>.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: This is one request I could grant, but choose not to.  I am sure you understand my concerns.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: What else would satisfy you?
I’m here for perhaps the most valuable currency of them all, a -favor- from -you,- Szass Tam.  I helped you fight your battles.  I want your help to fight mine.
SZASS TAM: Spoken like a true politician - or one who bargains with extraplanar creatures.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: I could spare a day of my time - 8 hours - to help you, but only -once.-  It must be in an area where I can reach.  Remote pockets of the universe and certain conditions will waste your opportunity.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: Very well, <CHARNAME>.  I shall grant you your request on the condition that if you break our arrangement here, I reserve the right to execute you - or worse - for treason.  Do we have a deal?
Only 1 day?!
SZASS TAM: What an apprentice can do in days or hours an archmage like myself can do -far- faster!
We do.
SZASS TAM: Good.  I shall send you back now along with your payment.
<The party is warped back to the Forest of Tethyr Clearing where they were when Neera cast Reckless Dweomer and warped to Thay.>
<A Szass Tam Beacon spawns on the floor beside CHARNAME’s feet.  The party gains 35,000 quest EXP and successful quest completion of Destroying the Order of Eight Staves!>
Wait!  Let me consider something else to ask for instead.
SZASS TAM: Be quick about your business, <CHARNAME>.  I am immortal, but I am not fond of wasting any time.
Bhaal, the dead Lord of Murder, is my father, and I have killed my way across the Sword Coast and the Planes to get this far!  You are -not- the first Necromancer or being of your caliber who got in my way, and for a Red Wizard of Thay, you’re acting like I’m in a mood to accept your stupid shenanigans.  So, can we talk like civilized beings or are you just -asking- to up my body count?
SZASS TAM: I hired you, <CHARNAME>, because I expected you to kill Vicross without remorse.  In this, you have succeeded.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: You have also reminded me that my bodily regeneration would be an inconvenience greater than handling these loose ends myself.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: Thus, what is your price for your silence?
100,000 gold - immediately payable in full.
SZASS TAM: A significant sum, but one with which I would buy your silence in the strictest sense.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: Very well, <CHARNAME>.  I shall grant you your request on the condition that if you break our arrangement here, I reserve the right to execute you - or worse - for treason.  Do we have a deal?
We do.
SZASS TAM: Good.  I shall send you back now along with your payment.
<The party is warped back to the Forest of Tethyr Clearing where they were when Neera cast Reckless Dweomer and warped to Thay.>
<100,000G is added to the party’s funds.    The party gains 35,000 quest EXP and successful quest completion of Destroying the Order of Eight Staves!>
Wait!  Let me consider something else to ask for instead.
SZASS TAM: Be quick about your business, <CHARNAME>.  I am immortal, but I am not fond of wasting any time.
A Cloak of Mirroring.
SZASS TAM: You are right to seek your safety in a place like this.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: Very well, <CHARNAME>.  I shall grant you your request on the condition that if you break our arrangement here, I reserve the right to execute you - or worse - for treason.  Do we have a deal?
We do.
SZASS TAM: Good.  I shall send you back now along with your payment.
<The party is warped back to the Forest of Tethyr Clearing where they were when Neera cast Reckless Dweomer and warped to Thay.>
<A Cloak of Reflection spawns on the floor beside CHARNAME’s feet.  The party gains 35,000 quest EXP and successful quest completion of Destroying the Order of Eight Staves!>
Wait!  Let me consider something else to ask for instead.
SZASS TAM: Be quick about your business, <CHARNAME>.  I am immortal, but I am not fond of wasting any time.
The clothes off your back.
SZASS TAM: Either you seek to humiliate me or you know -exactly- what it is I wear.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: I can offer you my spare robe, alike in every way except that I am not wearing it now.  Disrobing for you might cause unwanted attention for us.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: Very well, <CHARNAME>.  I shall grant you your request on the condition that if you break our arrangement here, I reserve the right to execute you - or worse - for treason.  Do we have a deal?
We do.
SZASS TAM: Good.  I shall send you back now along with your payment.
<The party is warped back to the Forest of Tethyr Clearing where they were when Neera cast Reckless Dweomer and warped to Thay.>
<A Robe of Vecna spawns on the floor beside CHARNAME’s feet.  The party gains 35,000 quest EXP and successful quest completion of Destroying the Order of Eight Staves!>
Wait!  Let me consider something else to ask for instead.
SZASS TAM: Be quick about your business, <CHARNAME>.  I am immortal, but I am not fond of wasting any time.
A Staff of the Magi.
SZASS TAM: You ended the Order of Eight Staves just to request another?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: I understand your point.  This item is... quite the artifact.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: Very well, <CHARNAME>.  I shall grant you your request on the condition that if you break our arrangement here, I reserve the right to execute you - or worse - for treason.  Do we have a deal?
We do.
SZASS TAM: Good.  I shall send you back now along with your payment.
<The party is warped back to the Forest of Tethyr Clearing where they were when Neera cast Reckless Dweomer and warped to Thay.>
<A Staff of the Magi spawns on the floor beside CHARNAME’s feet.  The party gains 35,000 quest EXP and successful quest completion of Destroying the Order of Eight Staves!>
Wait!  Let me consider something else to ask for instead.
SZASS TAM: Be quick about your business, <CHARNAME>.  I am immortal, but I am not fond of wasting any time.
A Wand of Whips.
SZASS TAM: Very well, <CHARNAME>.  I shall grant you your request on the condition that if you break our arrangement here, I reserve the right to execute you - or worse - for treason.  Do we have a deal?
We do.
SZASS TAM: Good.  I shall send you back now along with your payment.
<The party is warped back to the Forest of Tethyr Clearing where they were when Neera cast Reckless Dweomer and warped to Thay.>
<A Wand of Whips spawns on the floor beside CHARNAME’s feet.  The party gains 35,000 quest EXP and successful quest completion of Destroying the Order of Eight Staves!>
Wait!  Let me consider something else to ask for instead.
SZASS TAM: Be quick about your business, <CHARNAME>.  I am immortal, but I am not fond of wasting any time.
[If Lichdom is installed] A Crown of the Lich
SZASS TAM: A fan of the Undead, I see.  Perhaps you admire my -superior- form.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: Very well, <CHARNAME>.  I shall grant you your request on the condition that if you break our arrangement here, I reserve the right to execute you - or worse - for treason.  Do we have a deal?
We do.
SZASS TAM: Good.  I shall send you back now along with your payment.
<The party is warped back to the Forest of Tethyr Clearing where they were when Neera cast Reckless Dweomer and warped to Thay.>
<A Crown of the Lich spawns on the floor beside CHARNAME’s feet.  The party gains 35,000 quest EXP and successful quest completion of Destroying the Order of Eight Staves!>
Wait!  Let me consider something else to ask for instead.
SZASS TAM: Be quick about your business, <CHARNAME>.  I am immortal, but I am not fond of wasting any time.
Your phylactery, of course!
SZASS TAM: Getting straight to the heart of the matter, I see, <CHARNAME>.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: This is one request I could grant, but choose not to.  I am sure you understand my concerns.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: What else would satisfy you?
I’m here for perhaps the most valuable currency of them all, a -favor- from -you,- Szass Tam.  I helped you fight your battles.  I want your help to fight mine.
SZASS TAM: Spoken like a true politician - or one who bargains with extraplanar creatures.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: I could spare a day of my time - 8 hours - to help you, but only -once.-  It must be in an area where I can reach.  Remote pockets of the universe and certain conditions will waste your opportunity.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: Very well, <CHARNAME>.  I shall grant you your request on the condition that if you break our arrangement here, I reserve the right to execute you - or worse - for treason.  Do we have a deal?
Only 1 day?!
SZASS TAM: What an apprentice can do in days or hours an archmage like myself can do -far- faster!
We do.
SZASS TAM: Good.  I shall send you back now along with your payment.
<The party is warped back to the Forest of Tethyr Clearing where they were when Neera cast Reckless Dweomer and warped to Thay.>
<A Szass Tam Beacon spawns on the floor beside CHARNAME’s feet.  The party gains 35,000 quest EXP and successful quest completion of Destroying the Order of Eight Staves!>
Wait!  Let me consider something else to ask for instead.
SZASS TAM: Be quick about your business, <CHARNAME>.  I am immortal, but I am not fond of wasting any time.
Let’s say we fight and we kill you.  Then what?  The rest of Thay won’t stand still while your next body regenerates.  The Red Wizards are schemers and your rivals would -jump- at a chance to have their way when you’re gone!
SZASS TAM: You sound like a mastermind yourself, <CHARNAME>.  I respect that.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: You are correct that there are certain parties interested in my absence and in the weakening of my position.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: Thus, as a token of my respect, what do you request of me?
100,000 gold - immediately payable in full.
SZASS TAM: A significant sum, but one with which I would buy your silence in the strictest sense.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: Very well, <CHARNAME>.  I shall grant you your request on the condition that if you break our arrangement here, I reserve the right to execute you - or worse - for treason.  Do we have a deal?
We do.
SZASS TAM: Good.  I shall send you back now along with your payment.
<The party is warped back to the Forest of Tethyr Clearing where they were when Neera cast Reckless Dweomer and warped to Thay.>
<100,000G is added to the party’s funds.    The party gains 35,000 quest EXP and successful quest completion of Destroying the Order of Eight Staves!>
Wait!  Let me consider something else to ask for instead.
SZASS TAM: Be quick about your business, <CHARNAME>.  I am immortal, but I am not fond of wasting any time.
A Cloak of Mirroring.
SZASS TAM: You are right to seek your safety in a place like this.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: Very well, <CHARNAME>.  I shall grant you your request on the condition that if you break our arrangement here, I reserve the right to execute you - or worse - for treason.  Do we have a deal?
We do.
SZASS TAM: Good.  I shall send you back now along with your payment.
<The party is warped back to the Forest of Tethyr Clearing where they were when Neera cast Reckless Dweomer and warped to Thay.>
<A Cloak of Reflection spawns on the floor beside CHARNAME’s feet.  The party gains 35,000 quest EXP and successful quest completion of Destroying the Order of Eight Staves!>
Wait!  Let me consider something else to ask for instead.
SZASS TAM: Be quick about your business, <CHARNAME>.  I am immortal, but I am not fond of wasting any time.
The clothes off your back.
SZASS TAM: Either you seek to humiliate me or you know -exactly- what it is I wear.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: I can offer you my spare robe, alike in every way except that I am not wearing it now.  Disrobing for you might cause unwanted attention for us.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: Very well, <CHARNAME>.  I shall grant you your request on the condition that if you break our arrangement here, I reserve the right to execute you - or worse - for treason.  Do we have a deal?
We do.
SZASS TAM: Good.  I shall send you back now along with your payment.
<The party is warped back to the Forest of Tethyr Clearing where they were when Neera cast Reckless Dweomer and warped to Thay.>
<A Robe of Vecna spawns on the floor beside CHARNAME’s feet.  The party gains 35,000 quest EXP and successful quest completion of Destroying the Order of Eight Staves!>
Wait!  Let me consider something else to ask for instead.
SZASS TAM: Be quick about your business, <CHARNAME>.  I am immortal, but I am not fond of wasting any time.
A Staff of the Magi.
SZASS TAM: You ended the Order of Eight Staves just to request another?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: I understand your point.  This item is... quite the artifact.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: Very well, <CHARNAME>.  I shall grant you your request on the condition that if you break our arrangement here, I reserve the right to execute you - or worse - for treason.  Do we have a deal?
We do.
SZASS TAM: Good.  I shall send you back now along with your payment.
<The party is warped back to the Forest of Tethyr Clearing where they were when Neera cast Reckless Dweomer and warped to Thay.>
<A Staff of the Magi spawns on the floor beside CHARNAME’s feet.  The party gains 35,000 quest EXP and successful quest completion of Destroying the Order of Eight Staves!>
Wait!  Let me consider something else to ask for instead.
SZASS TAM: Be quick about your business, <CHARNAME>.  I am immortal, but I am not fond of wasting any time.
A Wand of Whips.
SZASS TAM: Very well, <CHARNAME>.  I shall grant you your request on the condition that if you break our arrangement here, I reserve the right to execute you - or worse - for treason.  Do we have a deal?
We do.
SZASS TAM: Good.  I shall send you back now along with your payment.
<The party is warped back to the Forest of Tethyr Clearing where they were when Neera cast Reckless Dweomer and warped to Thay.>
<A Wand of Whips spawns on the floor beside CHARNAME’s feet.  The party gains 35,000 quest EXP and successful quest completion of Destroying the Order of Eight Staves!>
Wait!  Let me consider something else to ask for instead.
SZASS TAM: Be quick about your business, <CHARNAME>.  I am immortal, but I am not fond of wasting any time.
[If Lichdom is installed] A Crown of the Lich
SZASS TAM: A fan of the Undead, I see.  Perhaps you admire my -superior- form.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: Very well, <CHARNAME>.  I shall grant you your request on the condition that if you break our arrangement here, I reserve the right to execute you - or worse - for treason.  Do we have a deal?
We do.
SZASS TAM: Good.  I shall send you back now along with your payment.
<The party is warped back to the Forest of Tethyr Clearing where they were when Neera cast Reckless Dweomer and warped to Thay.>
<A Crown of the Lich spawns on the floor beside CHARNAME’s feet.  The party gains 35,000 quest EXP and successful quest completion of Destroying the Order of Eight Staves!>
Wait!  Let me consider something else to ask for instead.
SZASS TAM: Be quick about your business, <CHARNAME>.  I am immortal, but I am not fond of wasting any time.
Your phylactery, of course!
SZASS TAM: Getting straight to the heart of the matter, I see, <CHARNAME>.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: This is one request I could grant, but choose not to.  I am sure you understand my concerns.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: What else would satisfy you?
I’m here for perhaps the most valuable currency of them all, a -favor- from -you,- Szass Tam.  I helped you fight your battles.  I want your help to fight mine.
SZASS TAM: Spoken like a true politician - or one who bargains with extraplanar creatures.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: I could spare a day of my time - 8 hours - to help you, but only -once.-  It must be in an area where I can reach.  Remote pockets of the universe and certain conditions will waste your opportunity.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SZASS TAM: Very well, <CHARNAME>.  I shall grant you your request on the condition that if you break our arrangement here, I reserve the right to execute you - or worse - for treason.  Do we have a deal?
Only 1 day?!
SZASS TAM: What an apprentice can do in days or hours an archmage like myself can do -far- faster!
We do.
SZASS TAM: Good.  I shall send you back now along with your payment.
<The party is warped back to the Forest of Tethyr Clearing where they were when Neera cast Reckless Dweomer and warped to Thay.>
<A Szass Tam Beacon spawns on the floor beside CHARNAME’s feet.  The party gains 35,000 quest EXP and successful quest completion of Destroying the Order of Eight Staves!>
Wait!  Let me consider something else to ask for instead.
SZASS TAM: Be quick about your business, <CHARNAME>.  I am immortal, but I am not fond of wasting any time.
[If Edwin is in the area] You’re a powerful and resourceful man, Szass Tam.  Aside perhaps from Edwin here, no one in my party has a particularly strong caring about what happens in Thay, and you’re a powerful enough being that you have plausible deniability to weave whatever story you want.  Buy our silence and we leave here like the civilized beings you initially treated us as.  I assure you it will be less trouble than trying to fight.
SZASS TAM: What would satisfy you, then?
[If Baeloth is in the area] You wouldn’t try killing Baeloth here, your new employee, would you?  Those in the arena would find his absence suspicious.
SZASS TAM: Why do you believe I would agree to your terms?
<CONTINUE WITH SZASS TAM’S DIALOG.>
ToB: RASAAD’S COMPANION QUESTS
Dialog with Alorgoth (Material Plane) - Hull is in the party
ALORGOTH: What is this voice I hear?  Who are you, stranger?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull looks like he’s about to say something then quietly turns to Rasaad.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
RASAAD: Together then, into the realm of shadows.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: The shadows?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
RASAAD: <Rasaad looks confidently at Hull.>  The shadows.  <END DIALOG.>
Dialog with Alorgoth (Shadow Plane) - Baeloth/Hull/Trinden/Volo is in the party
RASAAD: Let it!  Alorgoth and I both will be buried here!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: A death wish is one wish I can grant!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Rasaad, when I joked about being weak as a monk and ‘living that long,’ I -didn’t- think you’d wanna die like a chump when you can just -run!-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: Only -fools- let themselves -die- so easily!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Suit yourself, but not like -that!-
<CONTINUE SCENE.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
RASAAD: Together then, into the realm of shadows.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: The shadows?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
RASAAD: <Rasaad looks confidently at Hull.>  The shadows.  <END DIALOG.> 
Alorgoth Trapped in Shadow Plane - Baeloth/Hull/Trinden/Volo is in the party
HULL: Rasaad, it’s over now.  Let’s finish this Bhaalspawn saga!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-
BAELOTH: Exit stage... left? (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-
VOLO: Discretion is the better part of valor, as they say!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-
TRINDEN: Leave -now- or live -briefly- in regret!
<CONTINUE SCENE.> 
Dialog with Killis - Baeloth/Hull/Trinden/Volo is in the party
KILLIS: There are too many of them.  We must flee.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Not for us!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<CONTINUE SCENE.>
Dialog with Rasaad - Baeloth/Hull/Trinden/Volo is in the party
RASAAD: And if we have no light left?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Finally!  Someplace livable! (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: I thought we had some infravision potions around here somewhere, maybe even some scrolls of True Seeing.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Cast a light spell.  Burn some oil.  Light a candle.  You’re overcomplicating things.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
RASAAD: <Rasaad sighs and shakes his head.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
RASAAD: Hull, the light of which I speak is ‘hope.’  Others may call it ‘morale.’
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: I do not take -kindly- to metaphors!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Shoulda said that the first time, but I gotcha.
RASAAD: Then we cannot allow that to happen.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I fully agree, Rasaad!
<CONTINUE SCENE.>
BG2: WATCHER’S KEEP & DEMOGORGON
These warning messages upon entering this map only apply if Demogorgon hasn’t been fought yet!
Party enters Demogorgon’s Floor - Baeloth
BAELOTH: What wretchedness wafts my way!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Wait!  -This- must be the imprisoned one, the being the Helmites hated!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Oh, beautiful abomination!  The Black Pits beckon!
Baeloth, do you -truly- intend to capture this thing?  It may have godlike powers!
BAELOTH: All the more reason to pursue it to the fullest!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Then again, it isn’t like a -god- would want to play peacefully in the pits!  May as well put to death -this- pest!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Let’s just call -this- lair my blackest pits yet!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Gather in the galley, my gallants!  ‘Tis time for another test ‘twixt two titanic terrors in Baeloth’s blackest pit yet! (from here) <END DIALOG.>
Party enters Demogorgon’s Floor - Hull
HULL: It’s dark, it stinks like shit in here, and the air is heavy with magic.  All signs point to bad news, kid!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I hope we’re ready for the fight of our lives!
<Pick one.>
Maybe we should turn back.
HULL: That’s your call, kid.  I’m not here to jinx it.
I think we’re ready.
HULL: Make your final preparations, kid.  It’s been nice knowin’ ya!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I’m not in a rush to start a fight here, but if something attacks us first, we don’t let up until it’s -dead- and -gone!-  <END DIALOG.>
Party enters Demogorgon’s Floor - Drizzt
DRIZZT: Halt, my friend!  The air is -thick- with evil!  This atmosphere must be that of the lower planes!  Be on your guard!
<Pick one.>
Should we turn back?
DRIZZT: Our task is to defeat the Imprisoned One here!  We may be able to wait a bit longer, but for the sake of the realms, this must be done!
Let’s face this fiend!
DRIZZT: Yes, my friend!  Spare no expense in destroying this demon!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: <CHARNAME>, I await your signal to proceed!  <END DIALOG>
Party enters Demogorgon’s Floor - Trinden
TRINDEN: It’s hot, it’s dark, and the energies of the Abyss are -eagerly- at work here!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: Godling, this is one being we should -destroy- before it can flee its cage!
<Pick one.>
You’re absolutely right, Trinden!
TRINDEN: Of -course!-  Destroying this thing and preventing a rival is the only -logical- thing to do!
Are you sure?  “Only fools rush in!”
TRINDEN: -You- have known about this for -long enough!-  This is -not- rushing, and this opportunity will -not- simply -wait- until you are comfortable then -let- you win!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: Regardless, my role here is as a -strong- advisor.  I shall aid you as I can.  <END DIALOG.>
Party enters Demogorgon’s Floor - Volo
VOLO: And so we entered the lair of the creature imprisoned by the Helmites beneath Watcher’s Keep.  The lair was black as night, the smell was as foul as the Abyss, and our heroes were about to enter one of the most difficult fights of their lives!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Oh, Elminster, how I wish you were here to help!
Big Daddy Elminster isn’t here to save us now, but you’re Volothamp Geddarn, adventurer extraordinaire!
VOLO: <Volo sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Back in Nashkel when others of no repute invited me to join them, -this- was the sort of situation I feared!  Just because I -am- so well-traveled doesn’t mean I’m able to kill gods twice before breakfast!
What about once, regardless of when our next breakfast is?
VOLO: Oh, it’s just an expression!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Have you not heard the phrase, “When it comes to killing a god, have someone else do it for you?”
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: <Volo sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Nevermind.  We came this far.  We have a job to do and we’ll get through it - somehow.
What?  Aren’t you ready to face this?
VOLO: I’m not about to face this thing -alone!-  However, -together- we shall triumph!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: But if you -do- have any potions, wands, scrolls, trinkets, or other abilities you’ve been keeping in reserve for ‘just the right time,’ I -strongly- suspect that -this- is the right time!
What do you know about this threat that’s been imprisoned here?
VOLO: My apologies, but not much.  Its stench is abyssal, meaning it’s some sort of demon and probably a -very- powerful one!  It’s probably immune or highly resistant to most forms of damage or debilitation.  It probably also summons or calls allies.  Don’t be surprised if it’s also a powerful spellcaster and fighter.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: In short, we had better be -absolutely- prepared to face something of -godlike- power here!
Let’s finish our preparations and move on.  Time isn’t waiting.
VOLO: Agreed, my friend!  <END DIALOG.>
BG2: Party Kills Demogorgon
NOTE: This line only plays once the party is out of combat and there are no foes in the area - that is, on map AR3020.  This section only plays with the appropriate characters on the same map.
BAELOTH: YES! (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Death delivered! (from here)
Any other comments on our fight before we move on?
BAELOTH: Ridiculous!  Outstanding!  Impossible!  Fantastic! (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: We do wonderful work!  I'm impressed.  (from here)
We did well, Baeloth!  Let’s move on and celebrate our victory in a more comfortable place!
BAELOTH: OBVIOUSLY, this was going to happen, but the amount of TIME it took borders on insanity!  How do you function on a day-to-day basis? (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: <Drizzt takes a deep breath of the foul air as his hands and body release the tension from the battle.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: Congratulations, <CHARNAME>, my friend!  What an act of heroism it has been for us to plumb the depths of this keep and slay the evil within!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: If you ever had any doubt we were heroes of a legendary caliber, let today remind you forevermore that we are!
TRINDEN: <Trinden’s tension is palpable as the demonic threat ends.  Abyssal blood drips from Trinden’s outfit onto the tainted ground.  Trinden’s demeanor relaxes and the fire in his eyes changes from a roaring blaze to a low flame.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: <Trinden releases a loud, bellowing, echoing roar!>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: Well done, my godling friend!  It is on this day that -we- have slain a god, however fleeting it may be!
A roar?  That seemed unlike you!
TRINDEN: Today is a rare day when we killed a -god!-  It is only fitting that the winners boast of their victory and the living shame the dead!
What do you mean by ‘fleeting?’
TRINDEN: Outsiders like demons, devils, and angels are immortal.  Their essences cannot be destroyed in the same way flesh can.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: By destroying Demogorgon’s material form here, we have ended the threat to the surrounding countryside; however, Demogorgon’s essence remains somewhere among the planes.
Why do you still claim we killed a god, then?
TRINDEN: If you kill a man and he is resurrected, you have still -slain- him!  In like manner, by defeating Demogorgon, we have killed him, even if he will one day return!
Haven’t you killed gods before?
TRINDEN: While I have been part of a team to overtake twin deities in combat, our intention in this context was to beat them into submission and -not- slay them!
Tell me more!
TRINDEN: Perhaps another time, my friend.  I am eager to relish this -new- victory!
Onward to victory!
TRINDEN: Remember, my friend:  We fight -from- victory!  Every challenge we overcome is fuel for our next inevitable win!
VOLO: <Volo blinks in surprise and confusion!>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: We have done something that I only recently thought impossible!  We have killed a god in its lair!  I am -astounded!-
What would Elminster say?
VOLO: That -is- a good question, my friend!  He was one to challenge my limits, and the fact that we have prevailed over Demogorgon is something worth celebrating!
What do you plan to do now?
VOLO: Once this surge of energy leaves and the back of my mouth stops tasting like blood and Haste potions, I plan to properly narrate this most -excellent- occasion!
Let’s go, my friend Volo!
VOLO: Yes!  Let’s!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: And so our heroes left the bowels of the prison of Watcher’s Keep, having slain the Abyssal demonic prince, Demogorgon!  They were quick to head to their victory celebrations!
HULL: WE DID IT!  WE KILLED A GOD!  ALLELUIA!
YEAH!  GO TEAM!
I’M SO EXCITED, I COULD RUN LAPS AROUND FAERUN RIGHT NOW!
Was it -really- a god we killed?
WE KILLED A GOD AND I WON’T BELIEVE ANYTHING ELSE!
[Party is in Shadows of Amn] Alright, Hull.  Let’s move on.
I AM -SO- PROUD OF US RIGHT NOW!  VICTORY KEGGER ON ME!  SEE YA AT THE COPPER CORONET!  <Hull leaves the party.>  <END DIALOG.>
[Party is in Throne of Bhaal] Alright, Hull.  Let’s move on.
I AM -SO- PROUD OF US RIGHT NOW!  VICTORY KEGGER ON ME!  SEE YA IN THE POCKET PLANE!  <Hull leaves the party.>  <END DIALOG.>
BG2: Party Lets Demogorgon Escape!
NOTE: This line only plays once the party is out of combat and there are no foes on the map - that is, AR3020.
BAELOTH: Agh!  Exit stage... left?  (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Well, -that- was a warm waste of potential!  I was waiting for us to wax it!
DRIZZT: How most unfortunate that this demon escaped its cage!  Surely, its heart -burns- with desire for -revenge!-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: I weep for the realms, <CHARNAME>.  Today is a day of shame.
TRINDEN: DAMNIT!  Our trophy god got away!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: <Trinden roars loudly in pain!>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: It is not every day we are given the -marvelous- chance to kill a caged god and -you- let it go to waste!
What happens now?
TRINDEN: Unless you can somehow -turn back time- to before this thing escaped or catch it where it is -now-, then it has eluded us.  I would have expected nothing less of a demon lord.
Can you turn back time that far?
TRINDEN: Just assume not; else, I would have already done so!
I’m sorry, but let’s just move on.
TRINDEN: <Trinden glares at <CHARNAME>!>
HULL: DAMNIT, KID!  We took too long ‘n’ let this demon god thing escape!
Sorry, Hull.
It’s one thing to kill a dragon.  It’s an even BETTER thing to kill a DEMON GOD!
Was it -really- a demon god?
The thing seemed so powerful that -I- call it a god!
Let’s just move on.  Maybe we’ll find it later.
<Tears fall from Hull’s face as he sighs.>
VOLO: Demogorgon got away!?  Oh no!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: I weep for those who have been afflicted because we didn’t stop this thing!
Can’t Elminster handle Demogoron?
VOLO: Probably, yes, but Elminster’s already been busy with -many- other matters in this region!  No sense in giving him -another- crisis to solve!
What should we do now?
VOLO: <Volo sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Let’s just take a deep breath-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: <Volo breathes deeply, choking on the Abyssal air.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: -and let’s just move on!
 <END DIALOG.>
Party Killed Demogorgon and Enters the Copper Coronet
<When the party arrives in the Copper Coronet, Hull is still excitedly talking loudly!>
HULL: THEN WE KILLED THE DEMON GOD AND MADE HIM SUFFER AN ETERNITY IN THE LOWER PLANES!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: GATHER ‘ROUND, EVERYONE!  LET’S GET DRUNK ‘N’ CELEBRATE!
<END DIALOG.>
Party Killed Demogorgon and Talks with Hull in the Copper Coronet
HULL: HEY, KID!  HERE’S YER KEG!
<CHARNAME> gains an item:  Hull’s Keg of Booze.  This item can be used to dispense 1 drink’s worth of beer and intoxication.  It weighs 250 pounds and starts with 200 charges.  If <CHARNAME> has too little room for the item, it falls to the ground in <CHARNAME>’s space.>
<Hull starts chugging his keg.  The drinking sound effect plays.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<A moment later, Hull finishes drinking.>
HULL: THANK YOU SIR!  MAY I PLEASE HAVE ANOTHER?
<Hull puts his keg on the bar.  It starts quickly refilling.>
Hull, did you -run- here from Watcher’s Keep?
HULL: YEAH!  I MADE GOOD TIME!
Hull, what have you been doing since we killed Demogorgon?
HULL: I’VE BOASTED ABOUT HOW -WE- KILLED A -GOD- WHILE DRINKING TO OUR VICTORY!
How is this even possible?!
HULL: STOP THINKING AND START DRINKING!
Hull, I challenge you to a drinking contest!
<Whoever reaches 100+ intoxication units first loses.  Hull starts at 0, despite his previous drinks.  Hull and <CHARNAME> keep taking drinks - with appropriate sound effects - until someone loses or there’s a tie after 200 total drinks dispersed.  Each drink also reduces the number of charges of Hull’s keg in his inventory and <CHARNAME>’s keg in his inventory each by 1.>
[If Hull wins] I lost?!  Ug!  I need a nap!
HULL: WE STILL KILLED A -GOD!-  WOO!
[If <CHARNAME> wins] I outdrank you, Hull!
HULL: Ug.  See- ya- tomorrow- kid.  <Hull falls asleep in place for 8 hours.>
[If <CHARNAME> and Hull tie] We tied!  Good show!
HULL: YEAH, KID!  GOOD SHOW!
Wanna go again?
HULL: NOT NOW, KID!  I’M JUST ENJOYING THE FACT WE KILLED A -GOD!-  WOO!
[If the party has undergone the drinking contest] Hull!  C’mon!  Let’s join forces again!
HULL: Alright, kid!  I feel better!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: It’s one thing to drink as much as I can for m’ birthday.  It’s another to wait until a socially responsible time of killing a demon god!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Baeloth is in the area.>
BAELOTH: You downed your drinks and didn’t drown!  What a dazzling display!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Trinden is in the area.>
TRINDEN: I shall not spoil your celebration.  Killing a being as powerful as Demogorgon is worth the revelry!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Volo is in the area.>
VOLO: And so, our heroes defeated Demogorgon imprisoned beneath Watcher’s Keep then drank themselves silly while I, Volo, your reliable narrator, stared in awe!  This was certainly an appropriate occasion for this gluttonous behavior, at least!
<END DIALOG.>
[If the party hasn’t partaken in the drinking contest] Hull!  C’mon!  Let’s join forces again!
HULL: DRINKING CONTEST FIRST!
<The drinking contest dialog tree starts.>
Hull, can someone else take my place in the drinking contest?
HULL: NO, KID!  IT’S JUST YOU AND ME!  DRINKING CONTEST -NOW!-
<The drinking contest dialog tree starts.>
Hull, I’ll save our keg for later.
HULL: DON’T WAIT!  DRINKING CONTEST -NOW!-
<The drinking contest dialog tree starts.>
Party Killed Demogorgon and Enters the Pocket Plane After 24+ Hours
<When the party arrives in the Pocket Plane, Hull is excitedly talking loudly!>
HULL: THEN WE KILLED THE DEMON GOD AND MADE HIM SUFFER AN ETERNITY IN THE LOWER PLANES!
<END DIALOG.>
Party Killed Demogorgon and Talks with Hull in the Pocket Plane
HULL: HEY, KID!  HERE’S YER KEG!
<CHARNAME> gains an item:  Hull’s Keg of Booze.  This item can be used to dispense 1 drink’s worth of beer and intoxication.  It weighs 250 pounds and starts with 200 charges.  If <CHARNAME> has too little room for the item, it falls to the ground in <CHARNAME>’s space.>
<Hull starts chugging his keg.  The drinking sound effect plays.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<A moment later, Hull finishes drinking.>
HULL: THANK YOU SIR!  MAY I PLEASE HAVE ANOTHER?
<Hull puts his keg on the ground.  It starts quickly refilling.>
Hull, did you -run- here from Watcher’s Keep?
HULL: YEAH!  I MADE GOOD TIME!
Hull, what have you been doing since we killed Demogorgon?
HULL: I’VE BOASTED ABOUT HOW -WE- KILLED A -GOD- WHILE DRINKING TO OUR VICTORY!
How is this even possible?!
HULL: STOP THINKING AND START DRINKING!
Hull, I challenge you to a drinking contest!
<Whoever reaches 100+ intoxication units first loses.  Hull starts at 0, despite his previous drinks.  Hull and <CHARNAME> keep taking drinks - with appropriate sound effects - until someone loses or there’s a tie after 200 total drinks dispersed.  Each drink also reduces the number of charges of Hull’s keg in his inventory and <CHARNAME>’s keg in his inventory each by 1.>
[If Hull wins] I lost?!  Ug!  I need a nap!
HULL: WE STILL KILLED A -GOD!-  WOO!
[If <CHARNAME> wins] I outdrank you, Hull!
HULL: Ug.  See- ya- tomorrow- kid.  <Hull falls asleep in place for 8 hours.>
[If <CHARNAME> and Hull tie] We tied!  Good show!
HULL: YEAH, KID!  GOOD SHOW!
Wanna go again?
HULL: NOT NOW, KID!  I’M JUST ENJOYING THE FACT WE KILLED A -GOD!-  WOO!
[If the party has undergone the drinking contest] Hull!  C’mon!  Let’s join forces again!
HULL: Alright, kid!  I feel better!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: It’s one thing to drink as much as I can for m’ birthday.  It’s another to wait until a socially responsible time of killing a demon god!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Baeloth is in the area.>
BAELOTH: You downed your drinks and didn’t drown!  What a dazzling display!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Trinden is in the area.>
TRINDEN: I shall not spoil your celebration.  Killing a being as powerful as Demogorgon is worth the revelry!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Volo is in the area.>
VOLO: And so, our heroes defeated Demogorgon imprisoned beneath Watcher’s Keep then drank themselves silly while I, Volo, your reliable narrator, stared in awe!  This was certainly an appropriate occasion for this gluttonous behavior, at least!
<END DIALOG.>
[If the party hasn’t partaken in the drinking contest] Hull!  C’mon!  Let’s join forces again!
HULL: DRINKING CONTEST FIRST!
<The drinking contest dialog tree starts.>
Hull, can someone else take my place in the drinking contest?
HULL: NO, KID!  IT’S JUST YOU AND ME!  DRINKING CONTEST -NOW!-
<The drinking contest dialog tree starts.>
Hull, I’ll save our keg for later.
HULL: DON’T WAIT!  DRINKING CONTEST -NOW!-
<The drinking contest dialog tree starts.>
MOD: BLACK PITS IN EET
Black Pits (Initial Visit to Map OH9360 with Hull/Volo in Party) - from BP in EET
VOLO: This was -not- what I was expecting to be doing right now!  At least this abduction could make for an interesting story, I suppose.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Allow me a moment to consider our surroundings and how we may best -survive- to share this story!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, I think we made a mistake.
[If Drizzt is also in the party] Was it bringing Drizzt?  I heard he’s a target of evil everywhere!
DRIZZT: Perhaps that is true.  My heroic reputation has gone out far and wide.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I wasn’t gonna say that, but it’s true enough.
[If Volo is also in the party] Was it bringing Volo?  I heard he’s bad luck.
VOLO: Don’t believe such lies!  I just... happen to find interesting events for no particular reason!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Let’s give Volo the benefit of the doubt, here.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Why, -thank you-, Hull!
Whatever, Hull.  We can handle it.
HULL: I like your vote of confidence, kid, but this wasn’t the sorta adventure I was expectin’ to have!
We’ll do our best, whatever comes.
HULL: I know.  I know.
What do you call a polar bear on a desert island?
HULL: Huh?
HULL: <Hull smiles and laughs lightly.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I get it.  Thanks, kid.
HULL: C’mon, kid!  Tell me!
HULL: <Hull smiles and laughs lightly.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I get it.  Thanks, kid.
Let’s go, Hull.
HULL: <Hull looks into your eyes and sighs.>
Black Pits (Initial Visit to Map OH9360 with Drizzt in Party) - from BP in EET
DRIZZT: <Drizzt quietly holds up his hand and signals for you to remain still and silent.  He sniffs the air and quietly sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: We’re in the Underdark.  This was -not- the homecoming I wanted nor expected!  As you should know, I’m no hero here.
DRIZZT: If I am, it is for your sake more than mine.  I may be used as bait to provoke you.
No hero here?  What?
DRIZZT: We’re being watched.  Here is no place to explain.
What’s your plan for getting us out of here?
DRIZZT: <Drizzt reluctantly smiles.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: <CHARNAME>, they expect us to fight for their amusement, so let us fight for our freedom by appeasing them - for now.
Let’s go.
DRIZZT: <Drizzt looks into your eyes and nods.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: Play along with them for now.  Put on the show they seek.
Black Pits - After Talking with Ghlouralk the Beholder with Hull in the Party
VOLO: Thank you, uh, mister beholder.  I am -honored- to be able to talk so -civilly- with your kind!  May I interview you for a research project of mine?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GHLOURALK: <Ghlouralk shakes its head.>  Baeloth demands blood be spilled.  This is no time to talk and raise suspicion.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thanks, Ghlouralk.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull turns to <CHARNAME>.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, I never thought we’d be acting friendly with a beholder like this, but here we are.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: It’s progress.  I think.  <END DIALOG.>
Black Pits - After Talking with Ghlouralk the Beholder with Drizzt in the Party
DRIZZT: <CHARNAME>, especially in the Underdark, the enemy of your enemy is your friend.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: Be -very- careful about trusting -anyone-, for allegiances can shift faster than you can breathe.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: <Drizzt faces Ghlouralk.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: As for you, beholder, you have my thanks.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GHLOURALK: <Ghlouralk smirks at Drizzt.>  <END DIALOG.>
Black Pits - After Baeloth’s Speech for the First Match (Diseased Gibberlings)
BAELOTH: Before any of our unwilling warriors wastes our time in a meaningful match, we like to warm them up with a little light exercise.  So as not to overwhelm the newcomers, we’ll start with the wretched lot of gibberlings!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: -That’s- how you pronounce it?  I thought it gibberlings, like gibberish!
HULL: Yeah.  Let’s go.  <END DIALOG.>
We can debate semantics and grammar after we win.
HULL: <Hull shrugs and nods.>  <END DIALOG.>
How much do you -really- wanna know the answer to that question?
HULL: Not very.  Let’s go!  <END DIALOG.>
Black Pits - After Baeloth’s Speech for the Second Match (Gibberlings)
BAELOTH: They may not look like much, but these gibberlings have passed inspection, unlike that last sorry gang.  You’ll have to break a sweat to slay these savages.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: How does he keep making his voice echo like that?
HULL: You too, huh?  <END DIALOG.>
HULL: Yeah.  Figures.  <END DIALOG.>
You try it.
HULL: Why is my voice not echoing like his?  <END DIALOG.>
Shut up, Hull.
HULL: <Hull rolls his eyes and sighs.>  <END DIALOG.>
Black Pits - After Baeloth’s Speech for the Third Match (Tavern Foursome)
BAELOTH: Prepare yourselves, my Underdark gladiators!  A gruesome fate awaits you at the hand of a motley mob of miscreants!  I yanked them from a shabby saloon.  Perhaps the victors can celebrate with a drink.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Sure!  Winning here was thirsty work.
Are you -sure-, Hull?  They’re trying to kill us!
HULL: If he’s buyin’, then yeah!  <END DIALOG.>
Count me in on this victory drink.
HULL: It’s a deal, kid!  <END DIALOG.>
I’m not about to trust whatever they serve when we win.  It’s potentially poison!
HULL: More for me then!  <END DIALOG.>
Whatever, Hull.  Let’s go.
HULL: Cheers!  <END DIALOG.>
Black Pits - After Winning the Third Match (Tavern Foursome)
HULL: Where’s my victory drink?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull looks around, confused.>
Baeloth did say ‘perhaps.’
HULL: Damn semantics!  <END DIALOG.>
Would a potion count?
HULL: It just ain’t the same, kid!  <END DIALOG.>
HULL: Ug.  Tricked again!  <END DIALOG.>
Didn’t our victory purse count for enough?
HULL: <Hull smiles and sighs, shaking his head.>  <END DIALOG.>
Black Pits - After Baeloth’s Speech for the Fourth Match (Hobgoblins)
BAELOTH: Behold!  Your next adversaries are a pack of punchy hobgoblins that I picked up near Waterdeep!  I promised them freedom if they perforate you, so they’re just ITCHING for a chance to escape!  Either that or my delousing spell needs work.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, I’m just tired of tauntin’.  Let’s go!
How unlike you, Hull!
HULL: <Hull groans.>  <END DIALOG.>
Why, Hull?
HULL: I’m hungry ‘n’ Baeloth went boring.  <END DIALOG.>
Hanging these haughty hobgoblins will be worth a win!
HULL: Now he got -you- talking like him!  <END DIALOG.>
Yeah, Hull.  Let’s go.
HULL: <Hull nods.>  <END DIALOG.>
Black Pits - Baeloth’s Speech for the Finishing Tier 1
BAELOTH: Ridiculous!  Outstanding!  Impossible!  You’ve managed to crush everything I’ve thrown at you.  Clearly, I have excellent taste in selecting gladiators.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Why -thank- you, sir!  Showmanship is my specialty!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Good, good.  When can we leave?
How unlike you, Hull!
HULL: <Hull groans.>  <END DIALOG.>
Why, Hull?
HULL: I’m hungry ‘n’ Baeloth went boring.  <END DIALOG.>
Hanging these haughty hobgoblins will be worth a win!
HULL: Now he got -you- talking like him!  <END DIALOG.>
Yeah, Hull.  Let’s go.
HULL: <Hull nods.>  <END DIALOG.>
Black Pits - Baeloth’s Speech for the Finishing Tier 1 - Drizzt in Party
<After Baeloth finishes his speech and the party ends dialog.>
BAELOTH: And you, -male-, look familiar.  Your -fighting- is -familiar-, too!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: <Drizzt looks calmly at Baeloth.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Can it be?  Oh, it is!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: <Baeloth grins with wicked delight!>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: The -dastardly- Drizzt Do’Urden dwells, dines, and will -die- in the Underdark!  How -delightful!-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: You think too highly of yourself, Baeloth!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: <Baeloth ignores Drizzt and turns to Najim.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Najim?  Remind me to give you a raise after all this is over.  You’ve outdone yourself this time!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NAJIM: <Najim smiles and nods at Baeloth.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: As for you, -Drizzt-?  Certain someones will pay -handsomely- for your corpse after your showtime ceases!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: <Drizzt narrows his gaze at Baeloth.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: <Baeloth wickedly smiles.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Sally forth, my slaves!  The show must go on!  <END DIALOG.>
Black Pits - Before Starting Fight (Gift of the Ogre Magi)
BAELOTH: Some of my friends have come to confide their concerns that I favored quality over quantity.  Who says you can’t have both?  Here with five endless avenues to excitement, is my friend and yours, the magnificent ogre mage!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Ogre mages?  Again?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And wait!  Baeloth has friends!?
What do you want me to say, Hull?
HULL: Say what you want, kid.  <END DIALOG.>
At least we know how to handle more ogre mages!
HULL: <Hull smiles and nods.>  <END DIALOG.>
I wonder if Baeloth bribed or charmed others into being his ‘friends.’
HULL: Maybe, kid.  Maybe.  <END DIALOG.>
Careful, Hull!  It sounds like a trap.
HULL: We already fell for one of his traps, but thanks.  <END DIALOG.>
Black Pits - After Winning Tier 2
BAELOTH: While you’ve done an excellent job of entertaining our guests, it is time to eliminate your exasperating endurance.  Ooh, that doesn’t mean you won’t go out with a bang!  Far from it, in fact.  Najin!  Prepare a suitable gift for them.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: I -could- use some introductions to your friends.  That, and some better equipment.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: If it’s poison or fireballs, I -totally- called it!
<END DIALOG.>
Black Pits - After Winning Ice Salamander Fight
BAELOTH: Confound it!  Once more, you have anticipated my surprise!  How does this keep happening?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Volo is in the party.>
VOLO: Maybe it’s because time works in cycles.  Everything that happened before will happen again somehow.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: We’re just good like that.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull winks at Baeloth.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Drizzt is in the party.>
BAELOTH: <Baeloth narrows his gaze at Drizzt.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: <Drizzt calmly smiles at Baeloth.>
Black Pits - After Winning Fire Giant/Fire Elemental Fight
BAELOTH: Heh huh... it appears I have miscalculated once again.  I grow tired of this game.  Begone, <RACE>!  You are beginning to bother me!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: Oh, we’re -way- past that!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: <Baeloth looks angrily at Hull!>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull smiles!>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Volo is in the party.>
VOLO: If this means our freedom, we shall -gladly- accept it!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: <Baeloth shakes his head and grits his teeth in frustration!>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: I shall take that as a ‘no.’
Black Pits with Hull or/and Drizzt in Party - Before Final Battle with Baeloth
BAELOTH: Had I known you would grow to be such a thorn in my side, I would have left you where I found you.  You must be very proud of defeating all the challenges the great Baeloth has placed before you!  How furious you must think I am!  Surely, you are on the very edge of freedom!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Volo is in the party.>
VOLO: You could have spared us -all- a lot of trouble if you just freed us sooner!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Well, yeah!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Drizzt is in the party.>
DRIZZT: I -know- it, Baeloth!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Hahahahaha - no... no escape.  No more tricks.  No more performances.  No more last-minute victories.  Your lives end here.  But at least your wish will be granted:  I will personally face you in combat.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Drizzt is in the party.>
BAELOTH: And I’m looking forward to felling YOU most of all, Drizzt!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: I am no stranger to sabotage of the Underdark!  You brought us down into your pit only for us to claw our way under your skin!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party regardless of whether Drizzt is in the party.>
HULL: Baeloth, I was likin’ your style when you weren’t tryin’ to kill us!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: <Baeloth smirks.>
BAELOTH: Such a dramatic turn of events!  Gorch, would you mind repeating that splendid rant of indignation on the arena floor?  I thought not, Garaq.  Thardek, to me!  Together, we will traumatize these tenacious troopers!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Volo is in the party.>
BAELOTH: Today, the vain and vocal Volo is VAPORIZED!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Drizzt is in the party.>
BAELOTH: And today the do-gooding Drizzt Do’Urden DIES!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party regardless of whether others are in the party.>
HULL: Baeloth’s got balls!  This calls for his castration!
<PROCEED INTO THE FINAL FIGHT AS NORMAL.>
Black Pits with Volo, Hull, or/and Drizzt in Party - Final Battle is Won by Party
VOLO: If you only let us go, we could have spared your life!  Well!  The villainous Baeloth is destroyed by his own means of torture!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Baeloth, you were -almost- too fun to kill!  You just -had- to go ‘n’ make it personal!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: Perhaps in death you will find redemption, Baeloth! <END DIALOG.>
Black Pits with Volo, Hull, or/and Drizzt in Party - Final Battle is Won by Party - Vendor Banter
XITHISS: You have my... appreciation, <RACE>.  I will not feast on... your brain... today.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: I do appreciate that.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You’ve bestowed your highest honor upon us!  Thanks!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: <Drizzt nods.> <END DIALOG.>
Black Pits - Final Battle is Won by Party - After Talking with Vendors
<If Volo is in the party.>
VOLO: Well, my company, I say we take the first opportunity possible to celebrate our victory -far- from here!  I think Najim said something about transporting us out.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Drizzt is in the party.>
DRIZZT: Wrongs have been righted this day!  Well done, everyone!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Drizzt AND Hull are in the party.>
HULL: Drizzt, thank you that we got to heroically overthrow that Drow slaver together!  Too bad he didn’t wanna follow after your example!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: Baeloth was too much a typical member of my kind, hateful and cruel.  I was glad to leave this life so long ago, and I am glad to leave it again!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Yeah!  Thanks!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party, regardless of Drizzt’s presence.>
HULL: Well, I’m glad that’s over!  Let’s return to the surface in safety, like now!  <END DIALOG.>
Black Pits with Drizzt, Hull, or/and Volo in Party - After Returning to the Surface
VOLO: <Volo dramatically moves his arms as he excitedly explains himself.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: That was a most -harrowing- experience!  I shall make note of our adventure, “Besting Battlemaster Baeloth and his Black Pits, an Underdark Fighting Arena.”
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: I am most ready to head to a tavern, enjoy a drink, and tell the tale!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Well, I’m glad -that’s- over, kid!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: If we find Baeloth again, let’s ask him to join us!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: He seems like a fun guy isn’t capturing us and making us fight to the death!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull & Drizzt are in the party.>
DRIZZT: We bested him once together, Hull.  What good would that accomplish?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I hoped he woulda learned his lesson and, y’know, wanted to act heroically like you for a change!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: <Drizzt smiles as he shakes his head at Hull.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: Old misbeliefs may take a day to learn and a lifetime to unlearn.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I think beating him up like we did sped up his education.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: Would that it were true, Hull.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull smiles and nods at Drizzt.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: So, kid, whadda ya say?
To enslave us again?
HULL: No, kid!
What makes you think he’d be back?
HULL: He’s a powerful caster, kid.  He has options.
Why would he even agree to join us?
HULL: “If ya can’t beat ‘em, join ‘em.”
Maybe you’d change your mind if we actually found him again.
HULL: Maybe, but I doubt it.
Baeloth and us fighting together?  Interesting!
HULL: Yeah!  Imagine all the wordplay he’d use!
I’m -totally- for it!  I already have plans!
HULL: Good, kid!
Hull?  Let’s go.
HULL: <Hull nods.>  <END DIALOG.>
MOD: IWD1 in EET
Just before Behlifet Fight
HULL: Go back to hell where you belong!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: You look like -quite- the gladiator!  Too bad you aren’t fighting for me - yet!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: And so, this big fiend attacked Volo and company and -failed- most admirably!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: <Trinden brandishes his weaponry menacingly and -glares- at Isair and Madar!>
<End dialog.  Start fight!>
MOD: IWD2 in EET
Just before Twins Fight (Final Fight)
MADAR: It suits me perfect, brother.  Farewell, mercenaries.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Oh, ho ho!  You have -that- wrong!  By -that- sonic slip, you have just made this severed hand into my newest Black Pits!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You two got -that- wrong.  -You- die first!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: And so, this duo mistakenly believed they could overcome Volo and company!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: <Trinden cracks his knuckles and -glares- at Isair and Madar!>
<End dialog.  Start fight!>
MOD: VISITING LOCATIONS FOR THE FIRST TIME WITH THIS MOD’S NPCS IN THE PARTY (BAELOTH, HULL, TRINDEN, VOLO, AND SOMETIMES DRIZZT)
Alabaster Sands - Alabaster Sands
BAELOTH: Ahem!  There is SAND on my boots!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Then Volo and company chanced upon a splendid civilized beachfront and enjoyed themselves!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: A moment’s respite, my friend!  Let us take in the beauty of this scene!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: <Trinden briefly closes his eyes and inhales deeply.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: And it feels like home.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Look, kid!  A beach!  It’s like a fun, sandy carnival over here!
Hull, I thought you were trying to be my bodyguard and Gorion stand-in!  Here you are acting like an excited child!
HULL: I -am- excited, kid!  With all the turmoil the world’s in, we need a break sometimes!  No one else is gonna enjoy life for us!
Now that you mention it, I -could- go for some fun right now!
HULL: I -totally- agree!  Where’s the beer tent?
Do you plan to get drunk at a time like this?
HULL: Not drunk, kid.  Having fun means booze is involved.  It’s like a rule!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: If anyone tells you to hold their beer, their fun time’s about to end!
Bring me some drinks too, Hull.
HULL: Only if yer buyin’, kid.
Careful about getting sand in your boots.
HULL: Well, kid, I wasn’t gonna throw a hissy fit over it!
Conversation’s over, Hull.
HULL: Careful if we go swimming, kid!  Don’t want anything to rust!
Easthaven - IWD in EET
VOLO: My friend!  Let us unearth the secrets of the famous Drizzt Do’Urden’s homeland!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: So we return so close to Menzoberranzan, but on the surface.  I cannot say I missed this place.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: <Trinden inhales deeply then exhales deeply.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Greetings, northern citizen!  Ice to meet you!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Look at me, kid!  I’m walkin’ on water without spells!
I can do that, too!
HULL: Yeah!  We’re special!
Why do you say we’re walking on water?
HULL: It -tastes- like water, kid!  Snow’s just really cold water!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Besides, kid.  We got -some- snow around Candlekeep!
Whatever keeps you away from the booze longer, Hull.
HULL: All this talking made me thirsty.  There’s an inn around here, right?
Do you wanna build a snowman?
HULL: <Hull grunts.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Must it be a snowman?  I was never good at making those!
<Pick one.>
No, Hull.
HULL: Phew!
I meant what I said, Hull.
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
C’mon, Hull!  Snowman building ain’t so scary!  Let’s do it together!
HULL: Aww!  Thanks, kid!
Let’s leave this watery scene before someone gets shipwrecked.
HULL: <Hull smiles and snickers.> 
Kuldahar - IWD in EET
HULL: Wow, kid!  Look at all this greenery!  I didn’t expect this so far north!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If CHARNAME owns the Druid or/and Shaman Stronghold.>
HULL: It’s like your naturey stronghold!  I think.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-
HULL: So, kid, whadda ya think of the place?
It isn’t mine.  Yet.
HULL: Tryin’ to own the world, huh?
What do you think about this place, Hull?
HULL: It’s pretty.  Prolly kuz the big city builders haven’t gotten here yet.
Poor tree!  What have they done to you!?
HULL: <Hull laughs!>
<Pick one.>
Good, Hull!  I’m glad you understood that joke!
HULL: <Hull smiles and winks at <CHARNAME>.>
C’mon, Hull!  This is serious!
HULL: <Hull just smirks at <CHARNAME>.>
[If CHARNAME owns the Druid or/and Shaman Stronghold] It reminds me of a new home, not like that stony Candlekeep we grew up in.
HULL: <Hull smiles and shrugs.>
It reminds me too much of civilization to be called nature.
HULL: Seems pretty wild to me.
Wanna write something in the snow?
HULL: With what?  Pee?
<Pick one.>
No, Hull.  Our footprints.
HULL: From Candlekeep with love!
Drop your pants ‘n’ gimme plenty!
HULL: <Hull rolls his eyes.>
Fire seems like a better way.
HULL: Kid, if you can manage it, write “Candlekeep burns in
the frozen north.”
The time for admiring this place is over for now, Hull.  Let’s go!
HULL: <Hull nods.>  <END DIALOG.>
ToB: MEETING ALLIANA IN PERSON WITH HULL (REUNION MOD)
NOTE: These responses assume the visions of Alliana appear to the party and not just <CHARNAME>.
Alliana Appears (Hull/Volo)
VOLO: -You’re- the mother?  I imagined someone... taller and more -striking- in beauty!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: So, -you’re- the mother.  Hmph.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I’m doing my best right now not to feel -utter disgust- for your -murderous insanity!-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ALLIANA: <Alliana barely blinks at Hull.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But state your peace - if you have any!
Alliana’s Dialog - First Vision (Hull/Trinden)
ALLIANA: Yet here you stand, alive.  Will mere words hurt?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Sticks and stones will break some bones but words will undo nations.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Trinden is also in the party.>
TRINDEN: -Absolutely- true!
ALLIANA: An apology is not nearly enough.  Only regret and understanding would bring us closer... my regret and your understanding.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: So you come in peace?  I didn’t expect that from a priestess of a MURDER GOD!
ALLIANA: But my time here grows short, and I feel demons nearby. I will find you later.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, I don’t know what to tell you.  She’s the murderous mother we never knew.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I know what Gorion -did-, but if she tried pulling that act today, what would happen?
Hull, don’t be concerned about how Gorion would have acted.  Just be you.
HULL: I got stuck between hating her for loving death and pitying her because she got forced into it.
An afterlife of torment would make anyone regret their wrongdoings in life.  I don’t buy her act.
HULL: I know.  I know.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Part of me agrees with you, but I’m concerned she’s just -another- one who’s trying to manipulate you!
We’ll handle that at the right time.
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Just like with -all- the other times we handled something when we got there, and that handling was usually quick.
I’m not worried.  You’re with me, Hull.
HULL: <Hull smiles, a tear falling down his face.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, that’s the nicest, friendliest, most encouraging thing you’ve told me lately.  Thanks!
I’m not concerned.  If I can kill Irenicus who stole my very essence, whatever danger Alliana poses seems small in comparison.
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Yeah.  Violence solves everything, right?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: At this point, you may as well have that tattooed all over you, it’s so obvious!
Let’s move on.
HULL: <Hull nods.>  <END DIALOG WITH HULL.>
I want to believe she genuinely cares for me, and that she meant what she said.
HULL: Me too, kid.  Me too.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Part of me agrees with you, but I’m concerned she’s just -another- one who’s trying to manipulate you!
We’ll handle that at the right time.
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Just like with -all- the other times we handled something when we got there, and that handling was usually quick.
I’m not worried.  You’re with me, Hull.
HULL: <Hull smiles, a tear falling down his face.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, that’s the nicest, friendliest, most encouraging thing you’ve told me lately.  Thanks!
I’m not concerned.  If I can kill Irenicus who stole my very essence, whatever danger Alliana poses seems small in comparison.
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Yeah.  Violence solves everything, right?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: At this point, you may as well have that tattooed all over you!
Let’s move on now.
HULL: <Hull nods.>  <END DIALOG WITH HULL.>
Alliana’s Dialog - Second Vision (Baeloth/Hull/Trinden)
ALLIANA: You should have seen him the night the Harpers showed up on our doorstep.  All fire and fervor.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Baeloth is in the party, regardless of others.>
BAELOTH: Such -pomp- and -circumstance- and you didn’t invite -me?-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Righteous wrath is what I call it!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Trinden is also in the party.>
TRINDEN: I see the beings from -this- plane are -also- schemers.  At least your cruelty was -effective.-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull flashes a glance at Trinden as if to say, “Stop it!”>
ALLIANA: You cannot forget. And little by little, you break.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Of -course- you break!  You want to love life, but you love -death- too much!
ALLIANA: I do not need forgiveness, child: I am damned. What I want is your understanding.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: That’s the best thing you’ve said yet!
ALLIANA: Shrewd, and pragmatic, too, I see. But what I want isn't for myself.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Well, you started to fool me!
ALLIANA: Shrewd, and pragmatic, too, I see. But what I want isn't for myself.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Well, you started to fool me!
ALLIANA: And? Sarevok sent assassins after you, yet you brought him back to life.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: It wasn’t my first choice.
ALLIANA: And? Sarevok sent assassins after you, yet you brought him back to life.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: It wasn’t my first choice.
Alliana’s Dialog - Third Vision
ALLIANA: But as I fell, for the briefest moment, I knew peace. Because I would see Lord Bhaal again.  Because you and Daemon were alive, and you had your whole lives ahead of you.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You’re twisted, sister!  Your peace came from life, not death!
ALLIANA: But you have accomplished even more, I see.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Largely thanks to Gorion’s good influence - and mine!
ALLIANA: But be careful, once the days of the prophecy run out.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: It’s good to know you aren’t -totally- insane!
Alliana’s Dialog - After the End of the Third Vision (Hull)
HULL: Kid, that was a -buncha- hard-hitting emotional stuff.  It was true, or she put on a -very- good show!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: What do you think of your mother now?
<Pick one.>
I’d rather believe she was misguided or cursed by Bhaal’s influence, and she did what she could with what she had.
HULL: Me too, kid.  Me too.
She was confused, Hull.  You probably would be too in her circumstances.
HULL: I dunno.  She didn’t seem like she was in a hurry to get outside help from, say, a Priest of Lathander.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But I see your point, kid.  Her emotions were like someone else mind controlling her.
She’s a vile witch that deserves the torment due her!
HULL: That’s a bit extreme, but it’s easy to pass off the past as a tragedy when you’re hurt and think you can get something you want from it.
I don’t like her, but I don’t hate her either.
HULL: We agree on this one then, kid.
I’d rather not say.
HULL: Alright.  She’s your mother.  I get it.  I think.
ToB: MEETING DAEMON IN PERSON (REUNION MOD)
Talking with Daemon in de’Arnise Hold - Main Hall (Baeloth/Hull/Trinden/Volo)
DAEMON: Me?  I am the bad guy.  The one who steps on your throat in the end.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-
<If Baeloth is in the party.>
BAELOTH: This asinine assassin alerts the audience of his intention!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-
<If Volo is in the party.>
VOLO: You call yourself an -assassin- like this?  A “bad guy?”  I... don’t think so.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-
<If Trinden is in the party.>
TRINDEN: Anyone claiming themselves evil is misguided.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: You didn’t attack yet so you aren’t -all- bad.
DAEMON: Don't you dare call me that. Not you.
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: Too late.
DAEMON: You broke our family; you grew up cherished and educated while I starved on the streets. It was you. All you.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: <Hull silently and suspiciously glances between <CHARNAME> and Daemon.>
DAEMON: I don't know why I'm even explaining myself to you. I should just snap your neck and be done.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: You want answers you think we have, and I think you regret trying to hate your family for so long.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Trinden is in the party.>
TRINDEN: You are a -coward- who -refuses- to make the first move!
DAEMON: Oh, I do intend to fight you - and kill you, mark my words. But before you die, I need to know.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: If you meant it, you woulda shut up ‘n’ done it already!
DAEMON: I was so careful when I started this attack. I gave those idiots enough time to escape; I've done everything to avoid deaths, lure you in and not to attract outside attention. And all for naught.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: You’re trying to understand love and respect.  I get it.
DAEMON: I've been obsessed with killing you. I even came near Candlekeep for that very purpose, did you know?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: So -that’s- what happened!
DAEMON: So. Here we stand, you and me.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Volo is in the party.>
VOLO: I’m here, too!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Baeloth is in the party.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: <Baeloth shrugs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Invisible.  (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Trinden is in the party.>
TRINDEN: You so fear death that you continue talking.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And Daemon, you don’t -need- to fight!  I don’t -want- to fight!
DAEMON: Not a chance.
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: <Hull smiles widely.>
DAEMON: That... doesn't sound too bad, come to think of it.
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: Consider it a make-up birthday present for many years!
DAEMON: Hey, so you are not totally hopeless. Good to know.
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: There’s hope for you to be a hero too, Daemon.
DAEMON: Ah, no, no, no. I have to make things right with Cyric and a certain demon-summoning amulet, and something tells me the Prince of Lies would NOT be pleased about that. Ao's edict, remember? Gods cannot interfere in your business, and Cyric kind of did - through me.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: <Hull turns to <CHARNAME>.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, I’m glad this long-lost brother of yours came to his senses quickly!
DAEMON: Yeah, in another twenty years or so. Sounds like a plan.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Trinden is in the party.>
TRINDEN: I have no intention of staying on this plane for -years!-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: Things have been happenin’ -fast-, lately!  We might not be around in a year!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But I know this is a -lot- to take in, Daemon.  Once this Bhaalspawn war is over, I say we all meet up and I’ll buy us some drinks and we can talk.
DAEMON: Sorry, bad habit. I will... write to you, too. I suppose.
<If Hull is in the party.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You write to us and we’ll write to you.  I’ll make sure we stay in touch.  Gorion would do the same!
DAEMON: But maybe you're right. It takes time. We can't jump from mortal enemies to best friends in a blink, can we? Feelings don't change that quickly.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: Are you sure?  Because I think they were going that way.
DAEMON: And that someone is never you, huh? I bet if heroes had to scrub the floors, we'd have a far lower mortality rate.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: You’ve never had to do Candlekeep chores.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DAEMON: <Daemon raises his eyebrow at Hull, then shrugs it off.>
DAEMON: Yeah, in another twenty years or so. Sounds like a plan.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: Things have been happenin’ -fast-, lately!  We might not be around in a year!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But I know this is a -lot- to take in, Daemon.  Once this Bhaalspawn war is over, I say we all meet up and I’ll buy us some drinks.
DAEMON: I'd be lying if I said I wasn't curious. But... I am not eager to go there. Not one bit.
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: Suit yourself.
DAEMON: Then we'll drink in Curst and celebrate in Carceri.
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: Not my kinda celebration - but if it means peace at last, I -might- be there.
<If Baeloth is in the party.>
BAELOTH: Sounds wild!  When and where?
DAEMON: That's what I've been doing for my entire life, and you know what? I like it. You do, too, judging by the tales of your exploits.
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: Point taken.
Daemon Goes Downstairs
<If Hull is in the party.>
NALIA: Ha! All right, I see your point. But, seriously, <CHARNAME>... sometimes listening can be the answer.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid!  Hey!  Listen!
<If Hull and Nalia are in the party.>
NALIA: Thank you, <CHARNAME>. I knew I could count on you, always.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Yeah, kid.  Good job for each of us!
<If Hull is in the party.>
NALIA: Part of me thinks this could be spent helping less fortunate, but you need it more. So take it, and use it well.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thanks, Nalia.  We’d better win this Bhaalspawn war soon or those ‘less fortunate’ will soon be ‘less alive.’
<If Hull is in the party.>
NALIA: I could not understand her at all, but she paid for what she did. Perhaps there is redemption even for her.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I hope so.
After Talking with Daemon and Not Fighting/Killing Him (Hull/Trinden)
<If Trinden is in the party.>
TRINDEN: So -this- was your long-lost kin.  I appreciate the peaceful resolution.
You acted as if I wasn’t trying to get a peaceful resolution!
TRINDEN: Results are only slightly a matter of -intention.-  I know your nature, and it is -violence-, just like it is a machine’s nature to obey its programmed orders.
Trinden, what do you know of long-lost kin?
TRINDEN: I too learned I had a long-lost sibling, an elder sister who was abducted by slavers and soon was -ferocious- enough to lead them!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: She ended up dead after coming against my family and was reluctantly slain by my father, a warrior who recognized her ferocity as his own.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: Had he not slain her, she would have killed or enslaved the rest of my father’s tribe.  We refused to revive her and attempt to mind control her into reason out of respect for my father’s wishes.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: I also know what it is like to lose a dearly beloved family member only to find them again... changed.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: After returning to my home plane and finding my home city of Jenneport to be in -utter ruin-, and even a wild magic zone from the heavy infusion of a magical disaster that wiped out the city’s populace, I found my uncle still alive amidst the ruin.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: ‘Alive’ is perhaps the wrong term.  He was thriving in the old workshops there as a Lich.  He had escaped the city’s destruction only to return - transformed by own power - and ready to resume his desire to further innovating in metaphysical research.
Trinden, have you often dealt with reluctant assailants like my long-lost brother?
TRINDEN: No, but I have studied enough sentient beings and their mannerisms to understand that he was hardly a threat.  A true killer quietly subverts and destroys his opposition, or provides such overwhelming force that subterfuge is a waste of time.
That’s all I wanted to discuss for now, Trinden.
TRINDEN: <Trinden nods.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: So be it.  <END DIALOG WITH TRINDEN.>
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: So, kid, now that Daemon’s gone for now, any last comments before we resume winning this Bhaalspawn war?
Hull, he is -not- the brother that I expected he would be.
HULL: Let’s see:  He worshipped Cyric, brought fiends to invade a castle, and was tricked into hating you but was -really- curious about who you were and what you could do.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: It makes -total- sense to me!
I never asked for this.
HULL: We only knew about him recently, kid.
Y’know what?  I am looking forward to finishing this Bhaalspawn war and having some time talking with him in a family way.  Loving, preferably.
HULL: Me too, kid.  Me too.
I understand now why my mother - and Gorion, even if he knew - would want to keep Daemon a secret from me.
HULL: <Hull just smiles and nods silently.>
There’s nothing more to say now, Hull.  We’ve said enough.
HULL: One more thing, kid.
Yes, Hull?
HULL: I’m proud of you two for talkin’ it out with Daemon.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Sure, you can call an army of allies from your demiplane, but not everyone who’s your friend is your family - and vice versa.
Are you calling yourself my family?
HULL: Of course!  I’ve been your Uncle Hull ever since we left Candlekeep!  I plan to stay that way!
Thanks, Hull.
HULL: And thank you too, kid!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Let’s go!  <END DIALOG.>
Wait!  I didn’t adopt you as my uncle!
HULL: I did!  Too late to change that, kid!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Let’s go!  <END DIALOG.>
This had better not be something sappy.
HULL: No promises, kid.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<Continue as if the party had chosen the, “Yes, Hull?” response.>
Please don’t make me cry after that.
HULL: Sorry, kid.  I know family reunions have all sorts of emotions.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<Continue as if the party had chosen the, “Yes, Hull?” response.>
Party Killed Daemon
<If Trinden is in the party.>
TRINDEN: So -this- was your long-lost kin.  Your violent side broke through and -killed- the man!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: Did you intend to interrogate his corpse and simply -hope- it would respond peaceably?
Interrogate his corpse?  Not specifically.
TRINDEN: Then what a -fool- you were to -kill- him so readily!  He could have been our -ally- in this time of plight!
I simply didn’t trust him.
TRINDEN: Nor did I entirely trust him, but I knew that it was better to make alliances through diplomacy and enforce them through intimidation!
I was doing well enough -without- him and his set of surprises!
TRINDEN: You can NEVER have too many allies!
You acted as if I was eager to kill him as fast as possible!
TRINDEN: Results are only slightly a matter of -intention.-  I know your nature, and it is -violence-, just like it is a machine’s nature to obey its programmed orders.
Trinden, what do you know of long-lost kin?
TRINDEN: I too learned I had a long-lost sibling, an elder sister who was abducted by slavers and soon was -ferocious- enough to lead them!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: She ended up dead after coming against my family and was reluctantly slain by my father, a warrior who recognized her ferocity as his own.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: Had he not slain her, she would have killed or enslaved the rest of my father’s tribe.  We refused to revive her and attempt to mind control her into reason out of respect for my father’s wishes.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: I also know what it is like to lose a dearly beloved family member only to find them again... changed.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: After returning to my home plane and finding my home city of Jenneport to be in -utter ruin-, and even a wild magic zone from the heavy infusion of a magical disaster that wiped out the city’s populace, I found my uncle still alive amidst the ruin.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: ‘Alive’ is perhaps the wrong term.  He was thriving in the old workshops there as a Lich.  He had escaped the city’s destruction only to return - transformed by own power - and ready to resume his desire to further innovating in metaphysical research.
Trinden, have you often dealt with reluctant assailants like my long-lost brother?
TRINDEN: No, but I have studied enough sentient beings and their mannerisms to understand that he was hardly a threat.  A true killer quietly subverts and destroys his opposition, or provides such overwhelming force that subterfuge is a waste of time.
That’s all I wanted to discuss for now, Trinden.
TRINDEN: <Trinden nods.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: So be it.  <End dialog with Trinden.>
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: Kid, I -really- didn’t wanna hafta kill him!  Why do it anyway?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull sighs in contempt at you as he narrows his gaze at you.>
[If <CHARNAME> owns de’Arnise Hold as a stronghold] Hull, he invaded -my home!-
HULL: <Hull sighs and shrugs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, I don’t like it, but I see your point.
Did you forget that he allied himself with -fiends- and took over de’Arnise Hold?
HULL: Yeah, kid, I did.  It’s called being -patient- and trying to -forgive- someone.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, I’m pretty sure he was just -trying- to make a point.
I was -trying- to act in the name of the greater good!
HULL: <Hull sighs as he looks at you, conflicted.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I get it.  Daemon was dangerous.  Maybe you weren’t sure if you should trust your mother because -I- didn’t!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But I’ve been around enough suspicious guys, and Daemon seemed like someone who got tired of hating you a -long- time ago and wasn’t sure how to handle himself after he -finally- met you!
<Pick one.>
I understand more now, Hull.
HULL: Good, kid.  Better to offer mercy and -then- prepare for war instead of going to war and -then- asking for mercy!
Hull, explain.
HULL: He was nervous, kid.  He tried hiding it, but I could tell.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: His eyes twitched a bit and his posture was a bit shaky.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Candlekeep taught me that, kid.  Our adventures just told me I was right!
Hull, I thought that’s what -you- wanted!
HULL: <Hull stares at you, surprised!>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, I know you’re related to Murder Daddy and that -sometimes- as a Candlekeep guard I had to act violently, but, with this Bhaalspawn war going on, I just got -tired- of killing all the time!
<Pick one.>
Hull, we live in a time and place where it’s -kill or be killed!-
HULL: <Hull just grits his teeth and shakes his head at you.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Not always, kid.  With fiends and maybe some other foes, I agree, but not here, kid.  He was your brother.
It’s a bit late, but I agree with you, Hull.
HULL: <Hull sighs, relieved.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, I’m glad ya came to yer senses!  Let’s resurrect Daemon if we can and try again.
I didn’t trust my mother.
HULL: I didn’t either, kid, but killing your brother like that just didn’t seem right!
Wait!  Why didn’t you trust her?
HULL: Let’s just say I’ve had trouble trusting -anyone- who worshipped a God of Murder who would try to sacrifice innocents.
He worshipped Cyric!  Why should I not believe he was Cyric’s pawn?
HULL: <Hull shrugs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Well, kid, he was still your brother.  So there.
I was in a hurry to get this over with.
HULL: Alright, kid.  I get it.  The fate of the planes may be at stake because of this Bhaalspawn war.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But -that’s- the sorta attitude I’d expect when we were facing a bigger threat.
Hull, you don’t call a guy who tried killing me and taking over de’Arnise Hold with a lower planes army the biggest threat around?
HULL: No, kid.  Hell’s your demiplane.  Your little corner of it, anyway.
Hull, I didn’t plan for him to -stay- dead.  We’ll revive him if we can.
HULL: <Hull smiles.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, now you’re talkin’ sense!
Hull, why did this -not- seem like an obvious trap to you?
HULL: Kid, I just got a good feeling that Daemon was trying to be redeemed.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Besides, if this counts as a trap, it’s one we can handle, kid.
Redeemed?  Explain!
HULL: If he wanted you dead, he woulda attacked first.  He didn’t.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Maybe ‘redeemed’ is too righteous of a word, but he didn’t -want- to fight you.
[If <CHARNAME> hasn’t chosen at least 1 dialog option as a reason for killing Daemon] Let’s just move on, Hull.
HULL: Not yet, kid!  Why did you kill Daemon?
[If <CHARNAME> has chosen at least 1 dialog option as a reason for killing Daemon] Let’s just move on, Hull.
HULL: Kid, if we can, let’s resurrect Daemon and give one more chance if we can.  You made your point and he made his.
What if he can’t be or doesn’t want to be revived?
HULL: Well, kid, at least we tried.
[If the party already chose the dialog option for planning to revive Daemon if they can] I already told you I planned to have Daemon revived.
HULL: And I’m just remindin’ ya.
Hull, why does this matter so much to you?
HULL: Daemon was your brother, kid, and I think Gorion woulda tried sparing him.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Remember, kid:  Gorion risked his life to save you from certain death.  He sheltered Imoen later.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Knowing how much of an ass Ulraunt was, that was a pretty big favor to ask!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Besides, when Irenicus took Imoen, you did what you could to save her!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Imoen is in the party.>
IMOEN: Thanks again, <PRO_BROTHERSISTER>!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Remember, kid, that was a -pretty big deal!-
<Pick one.>
Hull, that’s different.  I’ve known and trusted Imoen now for years!  I barely knew Daemon!
HULL: And ya spoiled yer chance at a good first impression, kid.  Next time, do it better!  <END DIALOG.>
Hull, I see your point.
HULL: Good.  Now use it!  <END DIALOG.>
Point taken, Hull.  Let’s move on.
HULL: Good, kid!  <END DIALOG.>
<If Volo is in the party.>
VOLO: My friend, I see you have some long-lost family!  I thought that sort of thing only happened in stories, but, I suppose life is one -grand- set of stories and a story itself!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: I’m sorry you two didn’t get to know each other sooner and on better terms.
Volo, no long, epic, rousing speech?  What?
VOLO: Oh, it’s nothing that grand this time.  It’s encouragement, or maybe consolation.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: To my knowledge, I’ve never -had- any siblings or aunts or uncles or cousins.  The closest thing to an extended family I’ve had is my friendship with Elminster - which does have its perks!
You’re friends with -Elminster?!-  How?!
VOLO: He took pity on me when I released “Volo’s Guide to All Things Magical,” which was nicknamed “Volo’s Guide to Enraging Mages” since I shared some supernatural secrets with the public.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: After that fiasco which had me on the run for longer than I’d like, Elminster contacted me and seemed determined to be my editor so scuffles like this would never happen again!  I think it’s worked!
Thanks for sparing me a long dramatic rant about family, life, or somesuch.
VOLO: You are welcome.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Since we know so little about your long-lost brother Daemon, there’s not much I can add to my notes.
Any last advice before we head out?
VOLO: Well, my friend, I am -glad- that I have -you- as my friend!  I’ve lived so long on the road that having encouraging, stable relationships has been rare but welcome!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: I know at times the world seems to revolve around me, and trouble and opportunity have followed me like dogs tracking a scent.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Life is like many stories:  It has ways of just ‘coming together’ or ‘working out’ by the end.  <END DIALOG.>
ToB: MEETING GORION IN PERSON (REUNION MOD)
NOTE: These responses assume the visions of Alliana appear to the party and not just <CHARNAME>.
Gorion Appears in the Pocket Plane (Hull/Trinden)
<If Hull is in the Pocket Plane, regardless of others’ presence.>
GORION: It is me. No demon or apparition could have made it here, to the heart of your domain. Only the challenges you set for yourself.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Sir, it is an honor and a pleasure to meet you again!  I’m Hull, formerly a guard from Candlekeep.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I did my best to guide your child as I thought you wanted it done!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GORION: Hull?  Well, thank you!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GORION: I admit, I was not expecting you to take up my mantle and act as a foster father to <CHARNAME>, my child.  Elminster or another well-trusted Harper was my first choice.  
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GORION: Regardless, Hull, you have my great gratitude for doing what I could not.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And you, sir, have mine.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Tears of joy fall down Hull’s face.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Whatever happens now, I -know- I did the right thing!
GORION: Torn with grief and desire to do right. But you would have not done the same as her. Love does not kill; love does not murder.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Sir, I -totally- agree!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GORION: <Gorion nods.>
GORION: You have grown into an unstoppable force, my child. I only have one wish: make it a force for good.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull nods eagerly!>
GORION: I came tonight because I felt you needed warmth, and support, and a warning - about trials and choices that stand before you. And because I miss you every day.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I miss you too, sir.  I’m... sorry I didn’t ask you to be my tutor in Candlekeep, or if I did, then I didn’t take it seriously enough.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: If I had, then maybe you would’ve adopted me as your son, too.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GORION: <Gorion quietly sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But what’s done is done.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
GORION: Be brave, my child. Be happy.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Enjoy your afterlife, sir!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Trinden is in the Pocket Plane, regardless of others’ presence.>
TRINDEN: So, -that- is your foster father.  I can partially relate, as I was raised by my uncle in a city while my birth father much preferred a wild, tribal life.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: Each of them loved me and aided me as best they believed they could.  
<END DIALOG.>
ToB: OTHER REUNION MOD STUFF
Captain Arat Dialog
<If Hull is in the party.>
CAPTAIN ARAT: I had. And then I chose a bad time to visit.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: At least you never met Ulraunt, the ass in charge of Candlekeep.  I’m pretty sure he breathed fire sometimes!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CAPTAIN ARAT: <Captain Arat just glares at Hull.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull merely smiles back at Captain Arat.>
<If Hull is in the party.>
CAPTAIN ARAT: Good luck, <CHARNAME>. Give 'em hell!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Sir, that won’t work if they’re -from- hell!  They’d enjoy it too much!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CAPTAIN ARAT: <Captain Arat lets out a frustrated sigh.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Let’s go find that kid!
Gheed Dialog (Hull/Trinden)
GHEED: Ah, too bad. Hey, you! You, over there! No, I don't care you're a demon, I got an offer you can't refuse!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Trinden is in the party.>
TRINDEN: Make this worth my -while-, -merchant.-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party.>
GHEED: Ah, too bad. Hey, you! You, over there! No, I don't care you're a demon, I got an offer you can't refuse!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull looks at Gheed, intrigued, and raises his eyebrow at him.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: An irrefutable offer you say?  Let’s deal, my friend!
Jessup Dialog
<If Hull is in the party.>
JESSUP: My name's Jessup. I joined the castle's guard a few tendays ago.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Welcome aboard!  I know how that feels, but without the fiendish home invasion.
<If Hull is in the party.>
JESSUP: I used to court Chanelle, one of Mistress Nalia's maids, but we never made it to the altar. I drank more and more, and she... well. Malvolio with his presents and his sweet words didn't help any, either. And then the attackers came, and we got separated.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Jessup, I -know- what it’s like to be so bored guarding a castle that you just wanna drink so much you taste floor.
<If Hull is in the party.>
JESSUP: I have an old magical quiver I've been saving to sell and pay for our wedding, but since it's never to be... well, it's yours, if you want it. Just please, please, get her out of that place alive.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You say that now, but once you start livin’ bigger ‘n’ better, I think you’ll change yer mind.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
JESSUP: <Jessup looks at Hull and shrugs.>
<END DIALOG.>
Returning to Jessup for Quest Completion
<If Hull is in the party.>
JESSUP: Here, this magical quiver will serve you well. And... I made a sacred vow to Tyr. I may be a failed bridegroom and a fallen ranger, but from this moment on I shall stop drinking. I swear.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Careful about your words.  ‘Never’ is a -long- time!  Besides, when you two -are- wed, are you gonna celebrate with water and not wine?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
JESSUP: <Jessup looks at Hull wide-eyed and rubs his chin a moment.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But I know what ya mean.  You found someone better to live for.  You wanna do what’s right.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
JESSUP: <Tears well up in Jessup’s eyes.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Go be the best man you can be for her, Jessup!  You want that and I think she could be persuaded to want that too.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull smiles and winks at Jessup.>
<END DIALOG.>
Dialog with Leon (Baeloth/Hull/Trinden)
LEON: I am a demon hunter. Name's Leon... well, it's not important right now. I heard demons were seen in these parts, and came to see if I could help. Instead, I got my ass handed to me.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: A demon hunter?  I thought you’d wear a bigger hat and not try to do it alone!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Baeloth is in the party.>
BAELOTH: You’re a bold one, determined to disarm and defeat demons!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Trinden is in the party.>
TRINDEN: Only an unprepared -fool- like you -tries- to fight -demons- with such failed results!
ToB: MEETING ALLIANA IN PERSON (TURNABOUT MOD)
NOTE: These responses assume Alliana appears to the party and not just <CHARNAME>.
CHARNAME Started Summoning Alliana/Alliana Appears - Hull is in the the Pocket Plane
HULL: She isn’t -at all- who I wanted here now, kid!
She’s my mother.  What did you expect?
HULL: Elminster.  Or Gorion.  Or Mystra.  Or someone else who -isn’t- a crazy evil death worshipper!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I know it’s your choice, kid.  I -hope- you know what yer doin’!
We’re fighting a crazy Priestess of Bhaal.  My mother is or was a crazy Priestess of Bhaal.  Sometimes, Hull, it takes crazy to beat crazy.
HULL: <Hull just smiles as he laughs, pleasantly surprised tears falling down his face.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: That’s the most Hull-like reasoning you could use on me, kid!  I am -so- proud!
Something in me knew I had to choose someone to help us and -fast!-  My mother came to mind.
HULL: <Hull shrugs and sighs, disappointed.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I know it’s your choice, kid.  I -hope- you know what yer doin’!
One thing I’ve wanted to know is how well my mother could fight.  That’s why I brought her.
HULL: She lost to Gorion and the Harpers.  That’s enough for me.
I summoned her because I wanted to witness your reaction, Hull.
HULL: <Hull sighs as he rolls his eyes.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: At least it’s another caster on our side.  I think.
So -that’s- what this thing does?  Oh.
HULL: <Hull sighs and facepalms.>
<Regardless of which dialog option the player chooses, continue with Alliana’s normal dialog.>
Alliana’s Dialog if Hull is in the Party
CHARNAME: I don't have a lot of time, Mother. I brought you out of the Abyss, out of death. I have that power. I need you to fight for me. You WILL fight for me. You owe me that much.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You tell her, kid!
CHARNAME: You would lecture me? I should have known better than to bring you here. You belong to the Abyss.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull smiles and nods in whole-hearted agreement.>
ALLIANA: So be it. Cut the cord, and send me back to hell!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: No one ever loved you anyway, bitch!
ALLIANA: My Lord is no more? No! It cannot be over. I did not raise my knife against you for the act to be meaningless. I did not die so that my god would moulder adrift in a void! My sacrifice...?! My suffering...?!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull smiles widely, as if he enjoyed silently watching Alliana suffer.>
ALLIANA: My Lord is no more? No! It cannot be over. I did not raise my knife against you for the act to be meaningless. I did not die so that my god would moulder adrift in a void! My sacrifice...?! My suffering...?!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull smiles widely, as if he enjoyed silently watching Alliana suffer.>
CHARNAME: Yes. We shall bury him with a victory. We, the pallbearers, will turn the suffering to those who have brought us to this wake.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And there will be blood, and a brawl that will be remembered for -ages- to come!
CHARNAME: I promise that I will spare you that fate, Mother. I will bring you back to life.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull just looks at <CHARNAME> silently, raises his eyebrow in suspicion, and waits.>
CHARNAME: Why should I give you such a blessing? You are only my "mother" in a vile corruption of the word. I was never more than a tool to you, a lamb to lead to slaughter.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Ya got -that- right, kid!  I’m -glad- you listened to your Uncle Hull!
ALLIANA: Yes! You are your father's deadly child! For that, I will not punish you for your disrespect. Come, our prey beckons!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull looks wide-eyed at the scene, shrugs, and prepares to fight!>
ALLIANA: I will not be alive. When this deed is done, and your foes' carcasses lie at our feet, you will taste the sweet succor of conquest, and you will have your life. I will have only an endless sufferance as I am cast once more into the pits of the Abyss.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull smiles widely upon hearing this!>
ALLIANA: Then I will be satisfied to wait, for survive we will. Have no doubt, my deadly child. No doubt whatsoever, my precious spawn of Bhaal.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Alright, team!  It’s war time already!
ALLIANA: Bhaal... is lost? NO! No...
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull grins gleefully!>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ALLIANA: Yes, my child. For you, I will fight. For you, I shall wield my rancor incarnate against all who would dare deny our blood its destiny!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Alright, team!  It’s war time already!
ALLIANA: You will release the essence, Imoen. You will entrust it to my child. It was always meant for a destiny greater than yours.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull looks at Imoen uncomfortably.>
Alliana was summoned but dies before Amelyssan does
HULL: Well, that’s -one- less body on our side!
ToB: MEETING GORION IN PERSON (TURNABOUT MOD)
CHARNAME Started Summoning Gorion - Hull is in the Party
HULL: Wow!  You can bring Gorion back?  I’d -love- to fight beside him!
I could’ve revived either Gorion or my mother with this power.  I chose the man who risked his life to save me from my mother and who died protecting me from my brother.
HULL: I -fully- agree, kid!
Hull, I brought Gorion here because of all the time you tried to be like him.
HULL: <Hull closes his eyes, taken aback!>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thank you, kid!  You honor me!
Time to fight with my adopted family against my birth family!  What a family feud it will be!
HULL: <Hull smiles as he rubs his hands together.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Imoen is in the party.>
IMOEN: <Imoen smiles.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: Well, when you put it -that- way, <PRO_BROTHERSISTER>...
<If Sarevok is in the party.>
SAREVOK: <PRO_BROTHERSISTER>, then what I am to you since we share a father?
Sarevok, I trusted you enough to bring you here, to the Throne of Bhaal.  We stand together!
SAREVOK: Yes, <PRO_BROTHERSISTER>, but do you consider me family after all we’ve been through?
I am comfortable calling you my ally, though not my brother.
SAREVOK: Very well then, <CHARNAME>.  After our victory this day, I hope your decision will change!
I trust you as a friend, though trusting you as a full brother will take time - if it ever happens.
SAREVOK: <Sarevok smiles.>  I see, <PRO_BROTHERSISTER>.  After our victory this day, I hope your decision will change and we will call each other family - as it should be!
Though I didn’t say it the first time, yes, Sarevok, we are family and I consider you my brother.
SAREVOK: Ah ha!  Then, <CHARNAME>, I thank you my <PRO_BROTHERSISTER>.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<Continue the dialog as if the player had originally chosen the response that Sarevok is a brother to <CHARNAME>.>
[If Sarevok is bound by an oath] You are my servant and bodyguard, bound by the oath of loyalty you swore to me in Bhaal’s domain.
SAREVOK: <Sarevok’s gaze narrows toward <CHARNAME>.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SAREVOK: <CHARNAME>, by now I hoped you would have seen beyond the oath of servitude I made you.  Perhaps you would see me as a friend, or even a brother.
You, Sarevok, are my servant until you are released - if that ever happens.  I plan to treat you well for each of our sakes.
SAREVOK: <Sarevok frowns with disapproval.>  Hmph.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SAREVOK: You shall change your mind yet, <CHARNAME> - especially after our victory this day!
You, Sarevok, are my servant until you are released - if that ever happens.  Know your place, stay in line, and each of us will be that much better off!
SAREVOK: <Sarevok frowns with disapproval.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SAREVOK: You shall change your mind yet, <CHARNAME> - especially after our victory this day!
I am comfortable calling you my ally, though not my brother.
SAREVOK: Very well then, <CHARNAME>.  After our victory this day, I hope your decision will change and we will call each other family - as it should be!
I trust you as a friend, though trusting you as a full brother will take time - if it ever happens.
SAREVOK: <Sarevok smiles.>  I see, <PRO_BROTHERSISTER>.  After our victory this day, I hope your decision will change!
Though I didn’t say it the first time, yes, Sarevok, we are family and I consider you my brother - even if you are bound to me by an oath.
SAREVOK: Ah ha!  Then, <CHARNAME>, I thank you my <PRO_BROTHERSISTER>.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<Continue the dialog as if the player had originally chosen the response that Sarevok is a brother to <CHARNAME>.>
[If Sarevok isn’t bound by an oath] You are my servant and bodyguard, even if I chose not to bind by the oath of loyalty.
SAREVOK: <Sarevok’s gaze narrows toward <CHARNAME>.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SAREVOK: <CHARNAME>, by now I hoped you would have seen me as more than an instrument of destruction for our enemies.  Perhaps you would see me as a friend, or even a brother.
You, Sarevok, are my servant until you are released - if that ever happens.  I plan to treat you well for each of our sakes.
SAREVOK: <Sarevok frowns with disapproval.>  Hmph.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SAREVOK: You shall change your mind yet, <CHARNAME> - especially after our victory this day!
You, Sarevok, are my servant until you are released - if that ever happens.  Know your place, stay in line, and each of us will be that much better off!
SAREVOK: <Sarevok frowns with disapproval.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SAREVOK: You shall change your mind yet, <CHARNAME> - especially after our victory this day!
I am comfortable calling you my ally, though not my brother.
SAREVOK: Very well then, <CHARNAME>.  After our victory this day, I hope your decision will change and we will call each other family - as it should be!
I trust you as a friend, though trusting you as a full brother will take time - if it ever happens.
SAREVOK: <Sarevok smiles.>  I see, <PRO_BROTHERSISTER>.  After our victory this day, I hope your decision will change!
Though I didn’t say it the first time, yes, Sarevok, we are family and I consider you my brother - even if you are bound to me by an oath.
SAREVOK: Ah ha!  Then, <CHARNAME>, I thank you my <PRO_BROTHERSISTER>.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<Continue the dialog as if the player had originally chosen the response that Sarevok is a brother to <CHARNAME>.>
You, Sarevok, are merely a friend, and one that I still trust with my life.
SAREVOK: And <PRO_BROTHERSISTER>, I thank you for that, but do you consider me family after all we’ve been through?
I am comfortable calling you my ally, though not my brother.
SAREVOK: Very well then, <CHARNAME>.  After our victory this day, I hope your decision will change and we will call each other family - as it should be!
I trust you as a friend, though trusting you as a full brother will take time - if it ever happens.
SAREVOK: <Sarevok smiles.>  I see, <PRO_BROTHERSISTER>.  After our victory this day, I hope your decision will change!
Though I didn’t say it the first time, yes, Sarevok, we are family and I consider you my brother - even if you are bound to me by an oath.
SAREVOK: Ah ha!  Then, <CHARNAME>, I thank you my <PRO_BROTHERSISTER>.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<Continue the dialog as if the player had originally chosen the response that Sarevok is a brother to <CHARNAME>.>
I consider you my trusted brother this day, even if we are of the legacy of Bhaal.
SAREVOK: <Sarevok smiles.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SAREVOK: <PRO_BROTHERSISTER>, I am glad that despite our misgivings you have chosen to consider me as your beloved family.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SAREVOK: And... consider this an apology for the grief I caused you.  And Gorion.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: So, Sarevok, does that mean I’m your Uncle Hull too?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SAREVOK: <Sarevok looks incredulously at Hull.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SAREVOK: Hull, let us consider each other allies.  I have no desire to be your nephew, however well you meant it.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Deal!
So -that’s- what this thing does?  Oh.
HULL: <Hull sighs and facepalms.>
<Regardless of which dialog option the player chooses, continue with Gorion’s normal dialog.>
Gorion Appears - Hull is in the Party
HULL: It’s the -legendary sage Gorion!-  Welcome back, sir, on behalf of Candlekeep!  It’s an -honor- to fight beside you and help fulfill your child’s destiny!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GORION: <Gorion looks at Hull, confused.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I’m Hull, by the way, former guard of Candlekeep.  I’ve been your kid’s bodyguard on ‘n’ off since your heroic last stand against Sarevok.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I tried learning wizardry from you a few times over the years, but I never took it seriously in Candlekeep.  Sorry.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is a Bard of any kit.>
HULL: But I learned arcane magic anyway as a bard!  You were one of my inspirations, even if you didn’t teach me everything I know.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is a Cleric of any kit.>
HULL: But I became a cleric anyway!  You were one of my inspirations, even if you didn’t teach me everything I know.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is a Druid of any kit.>
HULL: But I became a druid anyway, kinda like Jaheira!  You were each some of my inspirations, even if you two didn’t teach me everything I know.
<If Hull is a Druid of any kit AND Jaheira is in the party.>
HULL: But I became a druid anyway, kinda like Jaheira!  You were one of my inspirations, even if you didn’t teach me everything I know.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
JAHEIRA: Why yes, old friend.  Thank you.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is a single-classed Fighter of any kit.>
HULL: But I stayed true to my roots to be the best warrior I could!  You were one of my inspirations, even if you didn’t teach me everything I know!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is a Paladin of any kit.>
HULL: But I became a paladin to right wrongs throughout the land!  You were my inspiration to be a force of goodness, even if you didn’t teach me everything I know.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is a Thief of any kit.>
HULL: But I learned the roguish ways anyway!  Imoen was my inspiration, even if she didn’t teach me everything I know.  Thanks again for adopting her, too!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is a Thief of any kit AND Imoen is in the party.>
IMOEN: Yeah!  Thanks!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is a Sorcerer of any kit.>
HULL: But my sorcerous talents emerged anyway!  So, there’s that!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is a Wizard of any kit.>
HULL: But I learned wizardry anyway!  You were my inspiration, even if you didn’t teach me everything I know.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And you were my role model, sir!  I’m glad to have you back for however long!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GORION: And thank you, Hull, for your service.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GORION: <Gorion smiles and gives Hull an approving nod.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Tears of joy run down Hull’s face.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Ahem.  Now, go ahead ‘n’ talk with your kid.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<Continue with Gorion’s normal dialog here.>
Party Summoned Gorion - Hull is in the Party
GORION: And if you had, what would that have changed? Would you have made the same mistakes Sarevok made, he who knew more of his upbringing than you but lacked the wisdom to temper his panic?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Hull rubs his chin in contemplation.
GORION: Would you have killed yourself out of despair, as some of the other Children did? Or confided in the wrong people and been killed out of prejudice or fear?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull quietly winces in pain.>
GORION: I raised you to be strong enough, smart enough, and flexible enough to survive. And you did!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull smiles and winks at Gorion then <CHARNAME>.>
GORION: Farewell, my child. I wish this could have been different.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Goodbye, sir.  Do stay safe.  I’m sorry you didn’t stay longer.
GORION: This was a mistake. Go back to where you came from.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull looks at <CHARNAME> in shock!>
CHARNAME: I never did have a chance to thank you properly for what you did for me... for a spawn of Bhaal. I wish there were time to tell you everything I have learned and done since I lost you.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull’s eyes twitch as if he holds back a tear.>
GORION: I could say something about your apparent choice in friends, but this old man knows that in strange circumstances, in strange places, anybody can be a welcome bedfellow.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull smiles and snickers softly.>
GORION: I had such plans for us, <CHARNAME>, when we could face one another as equals and you knew of your secret past. But it was not to be. And with my body long gone, it is never to be.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull looks at Gorion if to sigh in sadness.>
GORION: You show such fire. Perhaps you are more your father's child than my own. I had hoped it would not be so.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull raises an eyebrow in curiosity.>
GORION: The fight will certainly be fearsome indeed if you would disturb an old man's final rest, and rekindle such memories. I can help you, yes. I could never deny you when it really mattered, you know that.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull smiles as he sighs.>
CHARNAME: I intend to use my powers to revive you, Father. To bring you back to the world of the living so you can have back what Sarevok cut short.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull smiles as he gives <CHARNAME> a thumbs up!>
CHARNAME: I intend to take the place Amelyssan thinks is prepared for her. I will fulfill my ultimate destiny as a higher being.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull smiles as he gives <CHARNAME> a thumbs up!>
CHARNAME: None of your business, really. You aren't even my real father. Especially not as a spectre called forth by my will.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull raises his eyebrow at <CHARNAME> and glares!>
CHARNAME: I plan to live my life the way you always taught me to. With decency, respect, and a good head on my shoulders.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull smiles at <CHARNAME> and nods.>
CHARNAME: I still have a number of debts to settle. And I will settle them with extreme prejudice.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull raises an eyebrow at <CHARNAME> in suspicion.>
CHARNAME: It seems like only yesterday you were insisting you were old enough to read the books on my highest shelf. Now, you tell me you are mature enough to take on such a mantle of power.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Hmm.
GORION: Oh, no, no, no, my child. I do not doubt your words or your intent, but I had my chance at life. And I made the most of it. Returning to it... lacks appeal.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull shrugs at <CHARNAME>.>
CHARNAME: You are a fool to reject my gift.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
CHARNAME: Is that not what children are for? To accomplish what we could not during our allotted span, to carry on in our name?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull rubs his chin in contemplation.>
CHARNAME: Is that not what children are for? To accomplish what we could not during our allotted span, to carry on in our name?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull rubs his chin in contemplation.>
GORION: Ah, my child. Was that all we taught you? Life is far too valuable to be spent bound up in anger and retribution. That path leads somewhere very dark, indeed.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull smiles and nods.>
GORION: But yes. I will help you.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thank you, sir!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GORION: <Gorion smiles and nods at Hull.>
GORION: So lead on, <CHARNAME>. I am proud to stand by you in this dark hour, one last time.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: For Candlekeep!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GORION: For Candlekeep, and for all those who lit the way before us!
GORION: You have given me good reason to be proud of you under the worst of circumstances.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Me too, kid.  Me too.
GORION: I wonder if my death was not the best thing for you--to force you to learn without the encumbrance and prejudice of a parent, to find out what life's potentials really are.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull looks nervously toward Gorion.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I did what I could to help, but no one can replace you, sir.  Your point still stands.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GORION: <Gorion smiles and nods.>
GORION: And I am proud that you appear to have the understanding of what it means to act in the right cause, not simply to react. A good <PRO_MANWOMAN> will always be preyed upon by the evil, looking to exploit a weakness, to corrupt, to take.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: We’ve had -plenty- of that!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GORION: <Gorion smiles and nods.>
GORION: For you, <CHARNAME>, and for what I am sure you can still become. You have done well, and I will always be proud of you.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Aw!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GORION: And Hull, I am quite proud of you, too!  You did your best to continue my legacy and be the foster father that I could not.  If ever I had any qualms with either of you - or Imoen - please consider each of you fully forgiven and loved.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Imoen is in the party.>
IMOEN: Aw.  Thanks, dad!  <Imoen smiles.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: And, yeah.  I fully forgive us, too!  <Imoen winks.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<Regardless of Imoen’s presence in the party.>
HULL: I fully forgive us, too.  And me.
GORION: Not for you, <CHARNAME>. But for the <PRO_GIRLBOY> I thought you could become... and still might, if you set your mind and heart straight. It's never too late, not until you are dead. And even then, one never knows.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull nods vigorously.>
VICONIA: Is this the sort of prattle surfacers teach their young? It is a wonder you have lasted this long.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Shut up, Viconia.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VICONIA: Hull, just be glad for your sake that you have proved amply useful in our travels.  Otherwise, I would have abandoned you like many other iblith.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Anyway.
MINSC: Do not worry, strange spirit man! Minsc and Boo have been helping <CHARNAME> see and boot the invisible enemies of goodness for some time now!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Me too!
CHARNAME: You did. But everything we fought for, and that you died for, could come to an abrupt end without your powers at my side. Amelyssan the high priestess of Bhaal will surely kill me to take my essence if you do not help.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And we’d -all- feel better with you fighting with us, sir!
CHARNAME: I was mature enough! Smart enough! Old enough! I should have known!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Uhh...
GORION: So, why did you call me? Was it to have one last fight about your bedtime being earlier than Imoen's?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull smiles and looks like he’s holding back a laugh.>
CHARNAME: You know, I don't know why. This was a mistake. Go back to where you came from.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull shakes his head and sighs, a tear falling down his face.>
ToB: MEETING KHALID IN PERSON (TURNABOUT MOD)
CHARNAME After Summoning Khalid - Hull is in the Party
KHALID: Wha--who--what am I doing here?!?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Welcome back, old friend!  Sorry about Irenicus slaughtering you.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KHALID: <Khalid looks wide-eyed at Hull.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But we’d -really- like your help this -one- time!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull turns to <CHARNAME>.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You tell ‘im, kid!
<Continue with Khalid’s dialog as normal.>
ToB: MEETING YOSHIMO IN PERSON (TURNABOUT MOD)
CHARNAME After Summoning Yoshimo - Hull is in the Party
YOSHIMO: What is this?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: So, it’s the traitor.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But we felt sorry for ya and found a way to revive ya, at least for a little while.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
YOSHIMO: If this is what you consider forgiveness, I am... not sure how to react.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Well, we called ya here to have one last epic battle against the self-appointed new Goddess of Murder.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
YOSHIMO: <Yoshimo looks at Hull, wide-eyed!>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You tell ‘im, kid!
<Continue with Yoshimo’s dialog as normal.>
-=NEW AREAS=-
ALL: PORTABLE HOLE TAVERN
Uses Black Pits II Tavern Map (OH8000) as a base.  This will be a new area.
                                       * The exit returns the party to the map and coordinates where they were before entering the Portal Hole.  For example, if that’s 1000, 500 on map BG0800, they warp there.  (This functionality is similar in essence to the Pocket Plane exit and Pocket Plane warp ability from ToB.)
                                       * Access to the Portable Hole Tavern is via the Portable Hole Warp innate ability gained from using a Collapsing Portable Hole.  Only the main character can use a Collapsing Portable Hole and gain the Portable Hole Warp ability.  (This is a new item available from Thalantyr and Sorcerous Sundries in BG1; Sorcerous Sundries and Belegarm the Quartermaster in SoD; and Bernard the Copper Coronet Innkeeper and Ribald in SoA.  It’s in one of the chests in the Pocket Plane in ToB.)
                                       * Some locations don’t allow warping into the Portable Hole, specifically:
                                          * [SoA] Chateau Irenicus, Spellhold, and the ship fleeing scene after Spellhold / before the Underdark.  (Accessing the Portable Hole in the Underdark or on Brynnlaw Island outside of Spellhold is OK.)  In these cases, using the Portable Hole Warp ability displays the message, “ERROR: The Portable Hole is inaccessible from your area.”
                                          * [SoA] The dream sequence maps.  Trying to warp from these displays the message, “ERROR: The Portable Hole is inaccessible from your area.”
                                          * [SoA] Planar Sphere adventures.
                                          * [ToB] Saradush before the game allows using the Pocket Plane to escape.
                                          * [ToB] After the Pocket Plane collapses just before the final part of the game.  (This accounts for the Crucible mod which adds content after the collapse of the Pocket Plane but before the final ToB battle.)
                                             * Entry into the Portable Hole is only available outside of combat.  Attempting to use the Portable Hole Warp ability in combat displays the message, “ERROR: Hostile intent detected nearby.  Portable Hole inaccessible to prevent property damage.”
                                             * Resting for free is allowed and encouraged in the Portable Hole.
                                             * The Inn Bot (a Battle Horror sprite) has all the functions of a typical inn - buying/selling items in general, paying for rooms of all qualities, and buying a variety of drinks.  (The Inn Bot sells items for 125% and buys them for 50% with no depreciation.)  The Inn Bot also offers free item identification.
The Inn Bot’s inn shop inventory starts empty, but one Carlisle enters, and if the party doesn’t fight him initially, he adds items to the Inn Bot’s various shop inventories.  (The Inn Bot has separate shop files for armor, shields, weapons, scrolls, and more for the sake of organization.  These additional shops also buy items at 50%, sell items at 100%, and only buy items of their appropriate categories.)
Paid rooms are offered here for roleplay purposes and for inn buffs via Sword Coast Stratagems (SCS).
The Inn Bot’s shop prohibits stealing.
                                             * The God Bot (a Flesh Golem sprite) offers all temple services at their standard rates including free item identification.
The God Bot’s shop inventory starts with the normal/default selection of Temple items.
The God Bot acts as a Temple to the Lord of Blades, an Eberronian Construct deity.
                                             * The Juke Bot (an Iron Golem sprite) can change the background music for the Portable Hole via dialog.  Setting the music this way lasts until leaving the Portable Hole.
The tunes available are all the ones from BG1, SoD, BG2, IWD, and IWDII.  These files must be added to the mod from these games.  (Notes.)
                                             * Despite the location’s name of Portable Hole, it’s safe to use Bags of Holding and other extradimensional storage & abilities here.
                                             * If Golem Construction is installed before this mod, the Portable Hole becomes an area where parties can make golems via the method in Golem Construction.
Also, some items available to purchase from the Inn Bot differ.  Notably, normally the Golem Manual which summons a Flesh Golem is replaced with items from the Golem Construction mod to build golems.
Justin Ben Carlisle d’Cannith - better known simply as Carlisle - is a Male Human House Cannith Artificer and owner and author of the Portable Hole.  This place was his first modified Portable Hole, and so he called it his A-Hole.
Mechanically, Carlisle is a multiclassed Mage/Thief with no kit.  He is at least level 14 in each class.
While Carlisle would prefer NOT to fight, and the standard assumption is that players won’t fight him, some people will.  His combat script is thus:
Carlisle starts with a sequencer of Improved Invisibility, Stoneskin, and Haste.  His Contingency of Fire Shield activates.  He shoots a Stinking Cloud at the nearest foe he can detect amidst shooting foes with his crossbow.  He uses his Artificer’s Monocle (True Seeing ability) then continues with Mordenkainen’s Sword, Animate Dead, and other high-pressure abilities.
Equipped/Held Gear
                                                * Acid Bath Light Repeating Crossbow +3 (Paralytic Bolt is default ammo.)
                                                * Paralytic Bolt x80
                                                * Lightning Bolt x80
                                                * Crafter’s Chain +4
                                                * Whispers of Silence (Cloak of Nondetection)
                                                * Necklace of Adaptation
                                                * Mechanic’s Gloves
                                                * Carlisle’s House Cannith Signet Ring
                                                * Ring of Force Field
                                                * Artificer’s Goggles (Head)
                                                * Red Shift Boots
Carlisle - Forenote
Carlisle first appears in the above pictured spot in the Portable Hole 21 in-game days after the party first enters the Portable Hole.
Carlisle - Initial dialog
CARLISLE: What the fuck!?  Who the hell are you?!  How’d you get in here?!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: <The man points his wand at you!>
[CHARNAME has 15- CHA] If you want answers, put the wand down.
CARLISLE: No fuckin’ way, man!  I want answers NOW or I’ll have your corpse!
If it’s a fight you want, it’s a fight you’ll get!
CARLISLE: <Carlisle’s constructs are spawned in.  Combat begins!>
I’m <CHARNAME> of Faerun.  I probably found some item that warped me here.
CARLISLE: <Carlisle narrows his gaze at CHARNAME.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: Well, shit!  -That’s- where those knock-offs went!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: <Carlisle sighs as he puts down his wand.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: Welcome, stranger, to my A-Hole!  I’m Carlisle.  Ready to get comfy?
Uh, what?!
CARLISLE: <Carlisle laughs!>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: This is my A-Hole.  It’s the first modified Portable Hole I ever made.  She’s a beauty, but I knew I could do better.  So I did.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: I was sortin’ through m’ things when I came in here for a drink - for old times’ sake.  Then you showed up ‘n’ made me wanna shoot you!
CARLISLE: I gave away a buncha old junk to House Cannith to fuel their creation.  I think someone tried putting Portable Holes together and shoved them into another plane.
House Cannith?
CARLISLE: Yer either playin’ -very dumb- or yer just ignorant.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: I’m from Eberron, a plane known for its magic, its machines, and its merchant houses.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Trinden is in the party.>
TRINDEN: Sounds familiar.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: Good!  Ya from there?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: No.  I am from another material plane sometimes called Yevir for its mother goddess.  Our planes were similarly themed.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: Well, that just shows how damn -big- our multiverse is!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: <Trinden nods.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: I’m what’s called an ‘artificer.’  My life’s work is makin’ magic stuff.  Sometimes, it’s boring formulaic stuff.  Sometimes, it’s so experimental I feared for my very soul!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Aura is in the party.>
AURA: I’m into that sort of thing.  I think we’ll get along just fine!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: You too?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AURA: <Aura nods.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: We can swap schematics later.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: But House Cannith’s all about makin’ the very best - or the most profitable - version of everything!
Modified Portable Hole?
CARLISLE: It’s my job to improve everything.  Innovate, innovate, innovate - even if damn fools call you obsessed or a neophile!
What do you mean by ‘do better?’
CARLISLE: My A-Hole’s pretty good, but I just -hadda- make another one that was bigger!
What hole are you on now?
CARLISLE: My S-Hole.  That thing’s a fuckin’ castle inside!
Ooh!  Can I enter your S-Hole?
CARLISLE: Nice try!  I’m not gonna let just -anyone- into my S-Hole no matter how hard they probe!
So what now?
CARLISLE: Well, that’s the thing, ain’t it?  Yer here and it’s a damn shame I didn’t give ya a proper invitation.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: But I also never asked for -you- as a guest!  This place was for me ‘n’ private parties only.
Were you concerned about intruders?
CARLISLE: Hells no!  I put this Portable Hole in a secure spot in Bag Space where all the extradimensional storage units live, and I’m -damn- proud of it!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: But now that someone -didn’t do their fuckin’ job-, we may get some -bad- company.
You said you abandoned this A-Hole.  I wasn’t trying to intrude, but I still got in.  What do you say about just letting me stay?
CARLISLE: <Carlisle thinks a moment.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: Well, -technically- yer in abandoned property.  I’m here and I’d feel weird just kickin’ ya out.  For now, you can stay.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: Get comfy!  Have a drink!  Play whatever song you want on the Juke Bot!  This is our party place now!
CARLISLE: I’m here ‘n’ I plan to stay awhile.  Every man needs a drink ‘n’ a break.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: It’s like you read my mind!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: Here, man!  Have one on the house!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thanks!  <Hull drinks and gains 1 unit of intoxication.>
[CHARNAME has 16+ CHA] If you want answers, put the wand down.
CARLISLE: <He sighs as he puts his wand down.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: Yeah.  Intruders talk smack, not reason.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: Still, how the -fuck- did you get here?!
I’m <CHARNAME> of Faerun.  I probably found some item that warped me here.
CARLISLE: <Carlisle narrows his gaze at CHARNAME.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: Well, shit!  -That’s- where those knock-offs went!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: <Carlisle sighs as he puts down his wand.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: Welcome, stranger, to my A-Hole!  I’m Carlisle.  Ready to get comfy?
Uh, what?!
CARLISLE: <Carlisle laughs!>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: This is my A-Hole.  It’s the first modified Portable Hole I ever made.  She’s a beauty, but I knew I could do better.  So I did.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: I was sortin’ through m’ things when I came in here for a drink - for old times’ sake.  Then you showed up ‘n’ made me wanna shoot you!
CARLISLE: I gave away a buncha old junk to House Cannith to fuel their creation.  I think someone tried putting Portable Holes together and shoved them into another plane.
House Cannith?
CARLISLE: Yer either playin’ -very dumb- or yer just ignorant.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: I’m from Eberron, a plane known for its magic, its machines, and its merchant houses.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Trinden is in the party.>
TRINDEN: Sounds familiar.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: Good!  Ya from there?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: No.  I am from another material plane sometimes called Yevir for its mother goddess.  Our planes were similarly themed.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: Well, that just shows how damn -big- our multiverse is!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: <Trinden nods.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: I’m what’s called an ‘artificer.’  My life’s work is makin’ magic stuff.  Sometimes, it’s boring formulaic stuff.  Sometimes, it’s so experimental I feared for my very soul!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Aura is in the party.>
AURA: I’m into that sort of thing.  I think we’ll get along just fine!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: You too?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AURA: <Aura nods.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: We can swap schematics later.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: But House Cannith’s all about makin’ the very best - or the most profitable - version of everything!
Modified Portable Hole?
CARLISLE: It’s my job to improve everything.  Innovate, innovate, innovate - even if damn fools call you obsessed or a neophile!
What do you mean by ‘do better?’
CARLISLE: My A-Hole’s pretty good, but I just -hadda- make another one that was bigger!
What hole are you on now?
CARLISLE: My S-Hole.  That thing’s a fuckin’ castle inside!
Ooh!  Can I enter your S-Hole?
CARLISLE: Nice try!  I’m not gonna let just -anyone- into my S-Hole no matter how hard they probe!
So what now?
CARLISLE: Well, that’s the thing, ain’t it?  Yer here and it’s a damn shame I didn’t give ya a proper invitation.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: But I also never asked for -you- as a guest!  This place was for me ‘n’ private parties only.
Were you concerned about intruders?
CARLISLE: Hells no!  I put this Portable Hole in a secure spot in Bag Space where all the extradimensional storage units live, and I’m -damn- proud of it!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: But now that someone -didn’t do their fuckin’ job-, we may get some -bad- company.
You said you abandoned this A-Hole.  I wasn’t trying to intrude, but I still got in.  What do you say about just letting me stay?
CARLISLE: <Carlisle thinks a moment.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: Well, -technically- yer in abandoned property.  I’m here and I’d feel weird just kickin’ ya out.  For now, you can stay.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: Get comfy!  Have a drink!  Play whatever song you want on the Juke Bot!  This is our party place now!
CARLISLE: I’m here ‘n’ I plan to stay awhile.  Every man needs a drink ‘n’ a break.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: It’s like you read my mind!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: Here, man!  Have one on the house!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thanks!  <Hull drinks and gains 1 unit of intoxication.>
If it’s a fight you want, it’s a fight you’ll get!
CARLISLE: <Carlisle’s constructs are spawned in and a fight begins!>
[If the party has gotten Carlisle’s invitation to stay] So, Carlisle, what do you plan to do now?
CARLISLE: <Carlisle sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: Take a break.  I’ve done enough for my house for now.  I’ve also lost some friends and I just want -me- time!
Who are they and how did they die?
CARLISLE: I never said they died, -damnit!-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: I was part of a crew that handled extraplanar things.  Some got lost.  Some got soul sucked.  Some betrayed me.  Some just lost their will to a bottle.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: You move innovation forward for 20 years and suddenly, stuff just changes and people start rumors and do politics.  Or maybe not so suddenly.
Do you wanna talk about it?
CARLISLE: Fuck no!
What now?
CARLISLE: Well, I -am- an artificer.  I got some old stuff to unload in a way that’s safer than trusting it to the next House Cannith apprentice to dispose of properly.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: Of course, I’m gonna charge ya for it.  I got my own expenses, and letting ya stay here for free was generous enough!
Can I commission custom items from you?
CARLISLE: Not now, man.  I just got here and already yer like a child askin’ daddy for attention!
Can I see your inventory then?
CARLISLE: I already added it to the Inn Bot’s inventory.  Talk with him about it.
[If the party has gotten Carlisle’s invitation to stay] So long, Carlisle.
CARLISLE: Just be nice and I’ll let ya stay.  <END DIALOG.>
Carlisle - Repeat Dialog
CARLISLE: So, welcome back.  Get thirsty?
Can you craft anything special from what I have handy?
Note that Carlisle can craft any ‘special’ item that Cromwell or Cespenar could so long as the party has the materials.
CARLISLE: Round up whatchya got.  Lemme check.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If not.>
CARLISLE: Nothin’ this time.
<If so.>
CARLISLE: <Proceed with normal dialog for crafting.>
[If Golem Construction is installed before this mod AND this is the first time asking about this] Can you fix a golem for me?
CARLISLE: Probably.  First fix is free, friend!
[If this is the first time asking] How much?
CARLISLE: Take this scroll and use it on your mechanical buddy.  First one’s free.  <Give party the item a7!scgr1.  Yes, that’s the code from the Golem Construction mod.>
[If Golem Construction is installed before this mod AND this isn’t the first time asking] Can you fix a golem for me?
CARLISLE: The Inn Bot’s got repair scrolls.  Use those.
[If Golem Construction is installed] May I use this area for golem construction?
CARLISLE: Sure, if ya got the materials.  I’m not here to do it for ya, but I put few golem manuals for sale at the Inn Bot.
Not here to do it for me?  I thought that was your job!
CARLISLE: <Carlisle smiles.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: Fuck no!  You ain’t House Cannith, so you don’t get ta boss me around like that!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: Check the Inn Bot.  I got some golem stuff there.
How often does the Inn Bot’s stock change?
CARLISLE: Whenever House Cannith has enough to liquidate.  Check back now ‘n’ then.
Anywhere around here I could safely stash some coins?
CARLISLE: The Inn Bot’ll hold yer gold safely ‘n’ tenderly.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: And I’m -not- here to steal it.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: Just don’t expect interest.  This ain’t no House Kundarak vault!
CARLISLE: <Carlisle sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: On Eberron, the dwarves run House Kundarak which owns the banks, vaults, and secure storage areas.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: Guess who makes these vaults.
House Cannith.
CARLISLE: Sorta.
CARLISLE: House Cannith makes a buncha golems ‘n’ security devices, but not the overall structures.
House Kundarak.
CARLISLE: Mostly.
Why not entirely?
CARLISLE: House K digs their holes ‘n’ makes their vaults.  Sometimes they outsource the machines inside to people like my bosses at House C.
Alphabet soup house naming?
CARLISLE: It’s faster to say or write, “House C” than “House Cannith.”  All the houses start with different letters in the Eberron Common tongue.
CARLISLE: Nice try, but no!
CARLISLE: I knew that if I took any of those jobs, I might be tempted to try my luck breakin’ in.  I’m pretty sure I’d get in ‘n’ out with little trouble, but House K wouldn’t like it.
Someone else.
CARLISLE: Bzz!  Wrong!
Care to team up?
CARLISLE: <Carlisle sighs and shakes his head.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: Naw.  Thanks, though.  I’ve done enough plane hoppin’ to last me awhile.
What about touring your home plane?
CARLISLE: If ya can get there under yer own power, sure!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: <Carlisle laughs!>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: But I’m not about to try explainin’ to my boss why some strangers just came odda my abandoned A-Hole.  They wouldn’t go fer it and I might even get demoted!
Eberron still seems fascinating to me!
CARLISLE: Sure, it can be, but from what I can tell, yer livin’ quite a life on yer home plane.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: I’ve done enough plane hoppin’ to realize that most beings just -belong- on their home planes.  That’s why they were born or made there.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: Sure, ya might find some juicy site off-plane fer minin’ or chase some planar pirates across the multiverse, but, eh.  Ye get the idea.
Tell me more about yourself, Carlisle.
CARLISLE: <Carlisle shrugs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: I’m Justin Benjamin Carlisle d’Cannith.  I think my father picked that name because he wanted to laugh at “Just BC” jokes.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: But I’ve had a knack for machinery and item makin’ for, eh, 20 years now.  I’m not the best in House Cannith, but I sure ain’t the worst!
[If the party hasn’t finished the quest Carlisle’s Metal Perfection] What rank are you in House Cannith?
CARLISLE: Technically, I’m closer to the top than the bottom, but unless the guy in charge of the house gives up his top spot, I’ll never be -head- of the house.  I’m fine with that.
CARLISLE: The higher up ya are, the less ya make and the more ya deal with -politics.-  Not my style.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Trinden is in the area.>
TRINDEN: That is -absolutely- true.
How do you get promoted in your house?
CARLISLE: I started out takin’ orders like I’m a golem until I could impress the right guys ‘n’ gemme odda that slavery!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: After that, it’s doing all the dangerous shit others don’t want.  Ya gotta wrangle with elementals, meet clients across the planes, ‘n’ sometimes do stuff I don’t wanna talk about here.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: Around the mid ranks, sometimes I -wished- I could go back ‘n’ just be a lackey, safe ‘n’ sound by a forge.  It’s -damn- borin’, but it’s better than gettin’ my balls burned off on a fiery plane.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the area.>
HULL: I understand, Carlisle.  I felt that way, too.
[If the party HAS finished the quest Carlisle’s Metal Perfection] What rank are you in House Cannith?
CARLISLE: I’m better now, thanks to you!  Only 3 or 4 more ranks before I’m maxed out.  Depends mostly if the guy in charge ever leaves me his spot - because nepotism.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: But I’m not sure I want any more promotions soon.
3 or 4?
CARLISLE: Depends on if the top brass of House Cannith lets me be leader.  Also depends if they add any more ranks for their friends before I get there!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: <Carlisle laughs!>
Why not seek more promotions?
CARLISLE: The higher up ya are, the less ya make and the more ya deal with -politics.-  Not my style.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: But at least this promotion made me feel like I can handle more of it.  I got s’more guys under me who call me ‘boss.’  Makes me feel better, but I know I gotta make ‘em look good since I wanna last!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Trinden is in the area.>
TRINDEN: That is -absolutely- true.
How do you get promoted in your house?
CARLISLE: I started out takin’ orders like I’m a golem until I could impress the right guys ‘n’ gemme odda that slavery!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: After that, it’s doing all the dangerous shit others don’t want.  Ya gotta wrangle with elementals, meet clients across the planes, ‘n’ sometimes do stuff I don’t wanna talk about here.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: Around the mid ranks, sometimes I -wished- I could go back ‘n’ just be a lackey, safe ‘n’ sound by a forge.  It’s -damn- borin’, but it’s better than gettin’ my balls burned off on a fiery plane.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the area.>
HULL: I understand, Carlisle.  I felt that way, too.
What do you think of romance?
CARLISLE: It’s a -lot- easier to rank up when I don’t need a babysitter.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: But I’m pretty close to where I wanna be before I slow down ‘n’ settle down with House C.
And when that happens?
CARLISLE: Hey!  Don’t rush it.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: I got ideas.  Just lemme handle this personal business.
[If the party has finished the quest Carlisle’s Metal Perfection] Now that you’re promoted, what do you think of romance?
CARLISLE: Look.  Just kuz we mighta had a few drinks together and I let ya get comfy in my A-Hole doesn’t mean I’m gonna let ya try yer love moves on me.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: <Carlisle sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: If I’m gonna get romantic, I’m gonna reach out first.
Is there some deeper reason you don’t wanna get involved now?
CARLISLE: Yeah!  My parents rushed into this romance thing ‘n’ it tore our family apart, damnit!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: And I -don’t- wanna talk more on it now!
What do you do when you aren’t in this Portable Hole?
CARLISLE: I craft.  A -lot.-  Sometimes I outsource stuff to other craftsmen or constructs.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: But I craft here, too!  I brought m’ work with me!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: <Carlisle laughs!>
You have constructs that make stuff for you?
CARLISLE: They’re called Dedicated Wrights.  House Cannith’s been gung-ho about me usin’ ‘em, and I have, but there’s nothin’ like doing it myself.  Not like these little buggers can do it better.
Tell me about your family.
CARLISLE: My father’s a Human named Wilanthor d’Cannith.   My mother’s a Half-Elf called Syrialia d’Lyrandar.  I -think- I’m an only child.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: My parents loved each other until I came along, then house drama got in the way.  If I was an elfblood, I’d go with my mother and join her house.  Since I was Human, daddy took me for his house.  Parents split after that.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: But my daddy was a high-ranking craftsman in House Cannith.  He taught me a -lot.-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: I never knew much about my mother.  She just... left when I was a baby.
What did your father teach you?
CARLISLE: He started me simple with scrolls, then we worked our way up to golems.
Do you think your father was so focused on golem creation so you’d have someone or something around to compensate?
CARLISLE: <Carlisle shrugs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: It wasn’t like I was the only kid around!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: We had classes taught by other house members or machines.  We were eased into the dangerous stuff.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: I was just alone so much that the quiet or the sounds of work was my friend.
Where’s your father now?
CARLISLE: Buried in an honorable place.  He had his time ‘n’ just wanted to rest.  After all the plane hoppin’, politics, ‘n’ power grabs he did for House Cannith, I don’t blame him.
What else do you care to share about him?
CARLISLE: He was a family man, but also a -busy- man.  Others in House Cannith helped take care of me.  Maybe it was pity.  Maybe I was just that cute.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: He’s made what he called ‘Perfect’ golems.  He left me some of his schematics, but I haven’t done much with them.  They’re... expensive.
What happened to your mother?
CARLISLE: She left when I was a baby.  My father kept some paintings of them together, but I don’t think I ever saw her face to face.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: She chose her house over me.  I... don’t know what to say to that.
How did you feel about that?
CARLISLE: Pissed at the politics.  Sad she left.  Glad people in House Cannith cared.  Let’s move on.
Where is she now?
CARLISLE: <Carlisle shrugs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: Flyin’ high in the sky somewhere on one of her house’s airships.  Probably.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: I tried usin’ Sending spells to ask her to talk, but I never got anythin’ useful from her.  No sorries.  No dinner dates.  No straight answers.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: Dunno who put her up to this.  Maybe choosin’ her kin hurt her so much she’d rather abandon me.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: <Carlisle sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: Enougha this.  Next!
How sure are you that you’re an only child?
CARLISLE: Pretty sure.  Dad was broken hearted after ma left.  If I have any secret siblings, that’s a secret to everybody!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-
CARLISLE: <Carlisle smiles and laughs!>
What’s the most impressive thing you’ve made?
CARLISLE: Not countin’ my S-Hole?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: <Carlisle laughs!>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: I was part of a team that made some massive airships for guilds ‘n’ trade houses on Eberron.  Dunno what their top speeds were, but they could glide around the skies ‘n’ the planes pretty fast!
Ooh!  Can I get an airship?
CARLISLE: Sure - if you can talk to the right people in House Cannith ‘n’ make it worth their while.  Airships aren’t one man shows.
But what is the most impressive thing you alone made?
CARLISLE: Probably some golems of various types - iron, clay, flesh, stone, and so on.  Many mid-rank House Cannith members are golemsmiths.
What’s the most stupidest thing you’ve made?
CARLISLE: Man, that’s a -long list!-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: <Carlisle laughs!>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: But some guy wanted some golems with self-destruct units built in.  I thought that was pretty stupid to spend all this work on somethin’ that went BOOM in a second.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: There was an order for a -ton- of sovereign glue!  That was a mess.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: But someone asked for our help devising a weapon that would cost money every time the user tried damaging something with it!  That’s pretty stupid!
[If the party has the Gold Digger Sword in inventory.] You mean -this- one?
CARLISLE: Well, -shit!-  Yeah!  That looks it!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: It’s like someone chucked it through a portal as a joke!
Why turn a Portable Hole into a tavern?
CARLISLE: Why the fuck not?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: It ain’t like there’s much better use of one beyond pure storage!
What kept you going when it came to making things?
CARLISLE: The joy of creation!  And I did it so well that I got -paid- well, too!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: Every man needs his pride!
Don’t you get lonely in your Portable Hole?
CARLISLE: <Carlisle shrugs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: Eh.  Maybe.  I’ve just had a million ideas in a life span where I could only do maybe a few hundred, so I gotta choose which ones to do well.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: I got plenty of work to keep me company.
What about becoming Undead so you can live long enough to work out your ideas?
CARLISLE: Oh, I thought about that.  Don’t think I wanna become a Seeker, and goin’ fleshless ain’t gonna help m’ reputation with House Cannith.
Seeker?  What?
CARLISLE: <Carlisle sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: On Eberron, Undead all over mostly follow a ‘religion’ called the Blood of Vol.  Whispers of immortality.  Cultists.  Undead orgies.  That shit.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: Yeah.  I -could- do it, but Undead are just bad news on Eberron.  Too easy to make your clients a Vampire or a Shadow like you.
Why do you have the constructs you do around here?
CARLISLE: The Inn Bot’s there to keep the beds, drinks, foods, and tables in order.  I never had any wild parties around here, but if I did, he’d be cleanin’ up the mess!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: The Juke Bot’s there because music is soothin’ ‘n’ groovin’.  Sometimes I wanna hear somethin’ besides m’ thoughts.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: Juke’s gotta lotta buttons.  Push the right one for your song.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Baeloth is in the area.>
BAELOTH: I see the rivvil must really like buttons! (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: <Carlisle shrugs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: Yeah.  Got a -problem- with that?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: <Baeloth shrugs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: The God Bot was one of my experiments.  On Eberron, we don’t know much about the Lord of Blades - the machine god of machines - so we experimented with putting souls into constructs.  
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: Turns out that the Lord of Blades is -plenty- real and that he has a cult-like following among constructs with souls.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: And here -I- thought I was the crackpot for going along with the idea!
Uh, what?!
CARLISLE: Not all bodies stay intact for resurrection.  House Cannith found ways to extract souls from the dying and put ‘em into constructs.  That’s how some of the Warforged emerged - the Warforged being a fusion of organic and mechanical material.
How is that legal or ethical?!
CARLISLE: When yer in charge, ya make the rules!  House Cannith’s in charge!
What else did you learn about the Lord of Blades?
CARLISLE: The Lord of Blades is a godsdamn -fanatic- against most organic life!  I’m glad we ‘tamed’ our God Bot, though!
Can you teach me how to make golems?
CARLISLE: I gave an old golem manual of mine to the Inn Bot.  Maybe it’s still there.
[If Aura is in the area] Aura here would like to speak with you, Carlisle.
AURA: Yes, Mister Carlisle!  I am Auralia Glimmershine, and I am pleased to meet a fellow artificer!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: I take it artificers aren’t lining up around your plane to drive innovation.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AURA: I wish!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AURA: Outside my family and my homeland of Lantan, hardly -anyone- in the realms cares about advancing technology!  Sure, we have plenty of wizards who make items, but so many advancements die with their creators who never passed them on to the world!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: I get it.  When everyone’s a selfish bastard who’s paranoid about even writing down their progress in any legible way, progress is gonna stall.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-
CARLISLE: So, what do you specialize in making?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-
AURA: I’ve been working on some golems, but I have a background in explosives and item modifications.  I also have plans on how to make the world’s best freeze arrows!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: Explosives, golems, item mods, and freeze arrows, eh?  You sound like a true artificer to me!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: <Carlisle smiles and laughs at Aura!>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AURA: <Aura smiles and laughs back.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: I’ve done a bunch with golems, item mods, and some high-priced things like airships.  Wanna swap schematics?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AURA: Well…
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: Remember, I -did- let you stay in my modified Portable Hole for free.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AURA: Alright.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<The screen fades to black.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: Well!  You little lady are better off than I thought!  I’m a mid-rank artificer in House Cannith but I see ya got potential, Aura.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AURA: Aw!  Thanks!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: Most gnomes I’ve found rush into the deadly stuff without understanding the basics well enough.  They’re tryin’ to compensate for their small size.  Damn fools!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: But I think we’re done here.  House Cannith’ll wanna know more about yer freeze tech, and I gave ya some pointers on how to improve your technique.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AURA: Thanks!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: Thank ya too, Aura.  -Someone’s- gotta drive innovation!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: <Carlisle laughs!>
[If Baeloth is in the area AND the party is in BGII AND this is the first time Baeloth is talking to Carlisle about this] Baeloth here would like to speak with you, Carlisle.  It’s about your golems.
BAELOTH: Ah, my construct-constructing companion!  I’ve come to seek your services!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: Ya got a vaulta money to buy some high-end items?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Perhaps, my partner.  Perhaps.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: See, I am a premier purveyor of violent delights throughout the realms and I am -adamant- about acquiring capable constructs for combat!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: So, you want me to make you some battle bots?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Absolutely, my accomplished artificer!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: What -sort- of golems?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Your -finest-, my friend!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: I don’t think yer a millionaire, and if you are, I don’t think yer gonna wait a few years while House Cannith fills yer order.  Is that right?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Oh, confound it! (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: Thought so.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: Here’s what I’ll do for ya.  I’ll show ya some schematics ‘n’ prices.  Tell me whatchya think.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<The screen fades to black.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: So, the best I can do for what yer askin’ is 50K.  You want battle bots?  They don’t come cheap.  You should know that.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: <Baeloth sighs.> (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: Is it a deal, drow?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-
BAELOTH: An intriguing proposal. (from here)
Remember, that’s also -my- money.  Battling bots for 50,000 coins?  No deal this time.
BAELOTH: I cannot concede to such contemptible, nay, criminal coercion. (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: Your financier has spoken, drow.  Come back when <PRO_HESHE>’s ready ‘n’ willin’!
[If the party has at least 50,000G] I’m persuaded.  Here’s the money.  We’re looking forward to bot battles!
BAELOTH: Oh!  You make my black heart beat faster!
<The party loses 50,000G and gains 20,000 quest EXP each.  Baeloth gains another 10,000 quest EXP.>
<Complete Quest: Battlemaster Baeloth’s Constructs.>
[If the party is in BGII AND Baeloth is in the area AND the party didn’t pay for Baeloth’s constructs the first time]  I’m back!  Let’s talk more about Baeloth’s battle bots.
BAELOTH: Is the deal done?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: It’s still 50,000 coins for battle bots.  Take it or leave it.
Maybe I thought it would be cheaper.  Not yet, Baeloth.
BAELOTH: Is there really no one else you can bother? (from here)
[If the party has at least 50,000G] Let’s enjoy some bot battles together!  Shut up and take my money!
BAELOTH: Oh!  You make my black heart beat faster!
<The party loses 50,000G and gains 20,000 quest EXP each.  Baeloth gains another 10,000 quest EXP.>
<Complete Quest: Battlemaster Baeloth’s Constructs.>
[If Trinden is in the area] Trinden here would like to speak with you, Carlisle.
TRINDEN: Carlisle, welcome.  I am Trinden Felsad, Head of House Felsad, and prime purveyor of divine magic for my plane of Yevir.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: Well, Trinden, yer already speakin’ like ya know everythin’!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: I would be mistaken to legitimately claim I knew everything.  However, I am an metaphysical artisan who studied under my uncle who is a -genius!-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: <Carlisle looks curious and nervous.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: What -sort- of genius?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: He was only one of two beings on my plane to be able to create sentient, free-willed constructs as you have here.  He reverse engineered the original inventor’s devices after this original inventor, a Kobold Golemsmith named Odium, went missing after his rivals stole his soul.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: In a week, he transformed a shanty town into the basis of a thiring port metropolis via Plant Growth and Animate Dead.  In a month, he erected walls of stone for housing of many who fled to him for refuge.  In a year, he was likely the world’s most loved and hated man for his power.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: He tapped into the power source of a sleeping deity to fuel his rapid innovation.  He channeled the power of the upper planes directly into his inventions to improve the well-being of the mortal races.  He soul trapped various creatures including ruling angels to study them, use their power, and reverse engineer their abilities for social benefit.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: I did not and could not learn the entirety of his method.  He was likely an artificer using methods similar to yours.  I was trained in more traditional ways of divine spellcasting, though I learned many of my uncle’s methods.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: Includin’ soul trappin’ of angels?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: Being sent as an executioner and soul trapper to the heavens made me question my identity and my uncle’s sanity.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: Well, shit!  I don’t think there’s anythin’ else I can tell ya!  Merrix, head of House Cannith, might envy you!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: Thank you.  However, be that as it may, my uncle never taught me how to directly craft nor wield arcane spells.  He preferred divine spells since he was attuned to the flow of divinity and was able to capture that in devices such as scrolls, wands, weapons, and armor.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-
CARLISLE: So, what do you specialize in making?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-
TRINDEN: I have made sentient constructs, weapons, and armor.  I was too otherwise focused on being my uncle’s bodyguard and muscle to invest all my time in item creation.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: That’s one -hell- of a start!  Or should I say -heaven?-  Hah!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: <Carlisle smiles and laughs at Trinden!>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: Gracious.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: I’ll tell ya what.  Let’s swap schematics and maybe we’ll learn somethin’.  Deal?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: Absolutely.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<The screen fades to black.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: Hot damn!  Merrix’s gonna be jealous of everything you know!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: You need not tell him.  Surprise him with your newfound genius!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: On Eberron, making new sentient constructs was officially banned, but, that didn’t do -shit- to stop House Cannith’s top golemsmiths!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRIDEN: Forbiddance is a paradox:  To prohibit is to draw attention, and attention is implicit permission.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: Yeah.  That.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: You were the greater beneficiary of our schematic exchange; however, you also provided us this Portable Hole shelter for which I am grateful.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: I got the better enda the deal.  Thanks.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: Good luck on yer godhood!  And tell yer uncle Linus I said hi!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: <Trinden nods.>
[If Volo is in the area] Volo here would like to speak with you, Carlisle.  He’s curious about your world.
VOLO: Ah, Carlisle d’Cannith was it?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: Call me Carlisle.  The name’s long enough!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Ah.  Very good.  I am Volothamp Geddarm, better known throughout the realms as Volo!  I am pleased to make your acquaintance!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: <Carlisle and Volo shake hands.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: So, what are ya?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: I am a scholar of nearly anything and everything!  I am a famous author on this plane, though I understand I have not yet traveled everywhere!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: I am -exceptionally- interested in learning all I can about Eberron!  It sounds like a most -exciting- place!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: <Carlisle smiles and grins, showing his stained teeth.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: It’s exciting when ya like it ‘n’ dangerous or just a pain in the ass when ya don’t.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-
CARLISLE: But since yer so very curious, let’s talk.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-
VOLO: I have my pen and notes ready!
<The screen fades to black.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: So, there.  That’s what I know about Eberron.  There’s a -lot- more in -thousands- of years of history, but Eberron is like Faerun with more industrialized magic, more constructs, and about the same amount of politics!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Well, that -is- one succinct way to put it.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: I’ll tell ya what.  If yer ever in Eberron, visit the city of Sharn ’n’ ask about Carlisle at House Cannith.  Tell ‘em I sent ya.  Maybe we can tour the Cannith Enclave.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: That -does- sound wonderful!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: But from what ya told me, yer in deep with business on yer home plane.  Better get that done first.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Hmm.  I suppose you are right.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: Of -course- I’m right!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Ah, well, good day, sir.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: <Carlisle smiles and laughs!>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: G’day!
<The party gains the item Volo’s Notes on Eberron.>
[If Golem Construction is installed before this AND the party is in BGII] Have any tasks you want me to do for you?
CARLISLE: I got a -big- favor to ask:  Help me rank up in House Cannith.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: I’m gonna need a ‘Perfect’ grade Mithral or Adamantine golem.  I’ve already made some Perfect lower class golems.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: But I warn ya:  These things a -damned- expensive!  I don’t just mean in money, but the life force sucked odda yer very soul!
Does it matter which one I do?
CARLISLE: Nah.  I doubt I’d go up two ranks with an Adamantine.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: And no ‘special’ golems like Ice Golems or Brain Golems!  House Cannith’s -very- picky about this!
Brain Golems?  Ice Golems?  What?
CARLISLE: I’m not here to explain how exotic golems work.
How do I even -make- these golems?
CARLISLE: I put the schematics up for sale at the Inn Bot.
What happens if I do this for you?
CARLISLE: I rank up ‘n’ I take the golem.  Maybe I can secure s’more stuff for the Inn Bot.
Don’t -you- need to do this to get credit?
CARLISLE: It’s better I don’t.  I already proved I could make some.  Now, I hafta prove I can teach someone else to do this.
CARLISLE: Leadership.  If I know it well enough to teach you, someone I met suddenly on accident, I know it well enough to teach the next generation in House Cannith.
-Take- the golem?
CARLISLE: Yeah!  I’ll make sure I mention yer name and yer good job.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: No refunds or exchanges.
But -I- should be the one to present my Perfect golem!
CARLISLE: I don’t think we wanna explain to some -very powerful casters- how you ‘accidentally’ got into my A-Hole because -someone- in my house didn’t do their -damn job- and dispose of the rejected stuff right!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: I’ll keep it discreet if you do.  It’s for the best.
I’ll try it at least.
CARLISLE: You ain’t the first to say you’d do it.  I hope you’ll be the last.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: Impress me!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: <Carlisle winks at <CHARNAME>.>  <BEGIN QUEST: CARLISLE’S METAL PERFECTION.>
[If the party is on quest Carlisle’s Metal Perfection AND hasn’t yet given Carlisle a Perfect Golem] Let’s talk about that Perfect golem you ordered.
CARLISLE: What’s news?
I’m on it, but I’m not ready yet.
CARLISLE: Well, I’m not ready yet t’ give ya new stock.
[If there’s a Perfect Adamantine Golem or a Perfect Mithral Golem in the area] Here’s the golem you ordered.
CARLISLE: <Carlisle’s eyes go wide as he looks around at the Perfect golem.  He rubs his hands together and cackles maniacally!>
That was dramatic!
CARLISLE: Well, no shit, Master Inquisitive!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: That’s a detective or an object finder, by the way.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: I’ve told at least 17 people about this.  Yer the first that showed -any- sign of progress!
[If the area has at least 1 Perfect Adamantine Golem] I’m ready to give you my Perfect Adamantine Golem.
CARLISLE: Wow!  You sure?  These babies are frickin’ -expensive!-
Now that you reminded me, not yet.
CARLISLE: I don’t blame ya.  That golem’s a thick, black beauty!
I’m sure.  I’m looking forward to some -worthwhile stuff- at the Inn Bot for helping you, Carlisle!
CARLISLE: <Carlisle blushes and sighs, then tears start falling from his eyes.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: Well!  I, uh, guess I’m gonna be promoted now.
Sure.  Go on.
CARLISLE: I’m gonna need time.  Gimme a few days.  I’ll be back.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Baeloth is in the area.>
BAELOTH: We do wonderful work!  I’m impressed.  (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the area.>
HULL: Get promoted then drink yer face red if you want!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Trinden is in the area.>
TRINDEN: Enjoy your new position.  (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Volo is in the area.>
VOLO: I am impressed, my friend!  Getting you what you desired was a feat, and one I have already recorded!
Go on.
CARLISLE: <Carlisle uses Plane Shift with the Teleport spell circle graphic to warp out with a Perfect Adamantine Golem.  He’ll return in 3 days to the Portable Hole in his typical spot.>
<CARLISLE’S METAL PERFECTION QUEST COMPLETE!  Everyone in the area gets 60,000 quest EXP!>
<Carlisle uses Plane Shift to warp out with a Perfect Adamantine Golem.  He’ll return in 3 days.>
Tears?  Low confidence?  These aren’t like you, Carlisle!
CARLISLE: You weren’t meant to see this, -damnit!-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: I’m... gonna be the same rank as my dad when he died.  Only a bit longer before I’m second in command!
What do you need for -that- promotion?
CARLISLE: Some drinks with my house, first!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the area.>
HULL: Sounds like my kinda party!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: <Carlisle smiles as tears keep falling.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: But after that?  I dunno yet.  Prolly a solid relationship with the top House Cannith members.  I can’t outsource that.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: But... I’m gonna need time.  Gimme a few days.  I’ll be back.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Baeloth is in the area.>
BAELOTH: We do wonderful work!  I’m impressed.  (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the area.>
HULL: Get promoted then drink yer face red if you want!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Trinden is in the area.>
TRINDEN: Enjoy your new position.  (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Volo is in the area.>
VOLO: I am impressed, my friend!  Getting you what you desired was a feat, and one I have already recorded!
Go on.
CARLISLE: <Carlisle uses Plane Shift with the Teleport spell circle graphic to warp out with a Perfect Adamantine Golem.  He’ll return in 3 days to the Portable Hole in his typical spot.>
<CARLISLE’S METAL PERFECTION QUEST COMPLETE!  Everyone in the area gets 60,000 quest EXP!>
[If the area has at least 1 Perfect Mithral Golem] I’m ready to give you my Perfect Mithral Golem.
CARLISLE: Wow!  You sure?  These babies are frickin’ -expensive!-
Now that you reminded me, not yet.
CARLISLE: I don’t blame ya.  That golem’s a sleek, silver smasher!
I’m sure.  I’m looking forward to some -worthwhile stuff- at the Inn Bot for helping you, Carlisle!
CARLISLE: <Carlisle blushes and sighs, then tears start falling from his eyes.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: Well!  I, uh, guess I’m gonna be promoted now.
Sure.  Go on.
CARLISLE: I’m gonna need time.  Gimme a few days.  I’ll be back.
<Carlisle uses Plane Shift to warp out with a Perfect Mithral Golem.  He’ll return in 3 days to the Portable Hole in his typical spot.>
<CARLISLE’S METAL PERFECTION QUEST COMPLETE!  Everyone in the area gets 30,000 quest EXP!>
Tears?  Low confidence?  These aren’t like you, Carlisle!
CARLISLE: You weren’t meant to see this, -damnit!-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: I’m... gonna be the same rank as my dad when he died.  Only a bit longer before I’m second in command!
What do you need for -that- promotion?
CARLISLE: Some drinks with my house, first!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the area.>
HULL: Sounds like my kinda party!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: <Carlisle smiles as tears keep falling.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: But after that?  I dunno yet.  Prolly a solid relationship with the top House Cannith members.  I can’t outsource that.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: But... I’m gonna need time.  Gimme a few days.  I’ll be back.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Baeloth is in the area.>
BAELOTH: We do wonderful work!  I’m impressed.  (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the area.>
HULL: Get promoted then drink yer face red if you want!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Trinden is in the area.>
TRINDEN: Enjoy your new position.  (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Volo is in the area.>
VOLO: I am impressed, my friend!  Getting you what you desired was a feat, and one I have already recorded!
Go on.
CARLISLE: <Carlisle uses Plane Shift with the Teleport spell circle graphic to warp out with a Perfect Mithral Golem.  He’ll return in 3 days to the Portable Hole in his typical spot.>
<CARLISLE’S METAL PERFECTION QUEST COMPLETE!  Everyone in the area gets 30,000 quest EXP!>
[If the area has at least 1 Perfect Adamantine Golem AND 1 Perfect Mithral Golem] I’m ready to give you my Perfect Adamantine AND Mithral Golems.
CARLISLE: -Two- golems?  Yer one rich feller!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: Still, are you -sure?-  Those’re some of the most -expensive- things House Cannith makes aside from airships and super secure structures!
Not this time.  I just wanted to see your reaction.
CARLISLE: A tease?!  Bah!
I’m sure.  I’m looking forward to some -worthwhile stuff- at the Inn Bot for helping you, Carlisle!
CARLISLE: <Carlisle blushes and sighs, then tears start falling from his eyes.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: Well!  I, uh, guess I’m gonna be promoted now.  I -want- it to be twice, but, uh, I’m not gonna, uh, hold on for that.
Sure.  Go on.
CARLISLE: I’m gonna need time.  Gimme a few days.  I’ll be back.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Baeloth is in the area.>
BAELOTH: We do wonderful work!  I’m impressed.  (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the area.>
HULL: Get promoted then drink yer face red if you want!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Trinden is in the area.>
TRINDEN: Enjoy your new position.  (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Volo is in the area.>
VOLO: I am impressed, my friend!  Getting you what you desired was a feat, and one I have already recorded!
<Carlisle uses Plane Shift to warp out with a Perfect Mithral Golem.  He’ll return in 3 days to the Portable Hole in his typical spot.>
<CARLISLE’S METAL PERFECTION QUEST COMPLETE!  Everyone in the area gets 100,000 quest EXP!>
Tears?  Low confidence?  These aren’t like you, Carlisle!
CARLISLE: You weren’t meant to see this, -damnit!-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-
CARLISLE: I’m not used to good surprises!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: I’m... gonna be the same rank as my dad when he died.  Only a bit longer before I’m second in command!
What do you need for -that- promotion?
CARLISLE: Some drinks with my house, first!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the area.>
HULL: Sounds like my kinda party!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: <Carlisle smiles as tears keep falling.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: But after that?  I dunno yet.  Prolly a solid relationship with the top House Cannith members.  I can’t outsource that.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: But... I’m gonna need time.  Gimme a few days.  I’ll be back.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Baeloth is in the area.>
BAELOTH: We do wonderful work!  I’m impressed.  (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the area.>
HULL: Get promoted then drink yer face red if you want!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Trinden is in the area.>
TRINDEN: Enjoy your new position.  (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Volo is in the area.>
VOLO: I am impressed, my friend!  Getting you what you desired was a feat, and one I have already recorded!
Go on.
CARLISLE: <Carlisle uses Plane Shift with the Teleport spell circle graphic to warp out with a Perfect Mithral Golem.  He’ll return in 3 days to the Portable Hole in his typical spot.>
<CARLISLE’S METAL PERFECTION QUEST COMPLETE!  Everyone in the area gets 100,000 quest EXP!>
[The party finished the quest Carlisle’s Metal Perfection] You’re back after I gave you that Perfect Golem you wanted.  What now?
CARLISLE: <Carlisle smiles as he takes a deep breath.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-
CARLISLE: I’m promoted!  I -knew- it would happen, but I’m happy ‘n’ excited anyway!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-
CARLISLE: I tried keeping the whole situation discrete, but the heads of House Cannith have enough Divinations that I couldn’t keep any secrets even if I wanted.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-
CARLISLE: My superiors in House Cannith seemed fine that you made your masterpiece with my help.  After all, I told you to do it and helped you get the materials.
So, where’s the ‘masterpiece’ I donated for your promotion?
CARLISLE: In a museum in House Cannith.  Your name’s on a plaque in big letters next to its feet beside another plaque with my name in bigger letters.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: Trust me.  What you gave me is under -heavy- guard and it shines like the frickin’ sun when the light hits it!  There ain’t a dent on it!  I made sure of it!
Shouldn’t -I- get a bigger plaque?  -I- made it!
CARLISLE: Yeah.  I know.  But House Cannith’s proud of -its- members first and everyone else later.
What’s your next major project?
CARLISLE: I pitched this idea to my superiors:  A spell subscription.  Every month, defensive ‘n’ utility spells like Mage Armor, Shield, and Detect Invisibility are renewed on the subject so long as they’ve paid.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: Right now I’m, uh, still in the early stages of production.  Gotta research some things ‘n’ make my case to them, mostly about the logistics.
How long do you have to work on this project?
CARLISLE: No definite deadline, but it’s somethin’ I’m doin’ between other work.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: But we all should know that sooner’s better.
What do you have so far?
CARLISLE: Eh, not much.  I understand the -theory- well enough.  Start with a Permanency spell and modify the duration and mess with the parameters of Permanency so it works with the spells we want in it.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: But how do we handle the implementation?  What happens if something’s dispelled, or a user can’t come back every month or few to renew the subscription?  What about places where time just ain’t right and it goes super fast forward or even -backward?-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: I guess we -could- make ‘em 1 month potions subject to dispelling and we add our standard warning:  “Use at your own risk.  No refunds.”
Why does this project matter so much to you?
CARLISLE: <Carlisle smiles and briefly laughs!>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: While some casters have access to -oceans- of magic, most people -don’t.-  Having a couple healing potions in case of emergency or maybe some time-saving minor magic item is the best they got.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: Of course, the adventurous sort usually can get better stuff, but imagine you’re ambushed or put into a dangerous situation and y’ain’t prepared!  Well, chances’re high you’ll just die!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: So, yeah.  The goal’s to get an affordable way to do this for public safety.
What are some notable obstacles you have so far?
CARLISLE: The first is cost!  This stuff is fuckin’ expensive, ‘n’ I don’t just mean the research!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: Sure, we can cut costs by doing it in weekly or daily doses ‘n’ prolly in potion form, but governments or rich people are gonna hafta get involved for this to work on a wide scale.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: I mean we -could- just try constantly spreading the spells over a big area, like a city block or even a whole city, but anyone outside wouldn’t be affected.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: The second’s more insidious:  Even if we get everything right, are we gonna start an arms race?  Criminals are gonna crim, and it ain’t like we’re gonna turn away customers.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: Then there’s the possibility of stolen research.  Espionage is alive ‘n’ well in Eberron.
How confident are you that you’ll succeed in this project?
CARLISLE: <Carlisle shrugs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: Look, I’m not one to think about the odds.  If I did, I woulda never tried implanting a soul in the God Bot as I did.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: But I just -know- that there’s potential in this idea!  It’s the damn -details- that got me!
Do you want my help with this?
CARLISLE: <Carlisle looks at you, surprised!>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: As much as I like the -idea- of your help, this -is- my idea and -I- wanna take credit instead of sharing it.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: Making high-end golems is one thing.  That’s been my expertise for years.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: This spell subscription service?  It’s somethin’ -very- different!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: But that’s why they promoted me - to solve puzzles ‘n’ problems like this.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: So, I’ll letchya know if I want yer help.
Can I be your test subject?
CARLISLE: Maybe later.  This stuff is mostly theoretical.  I don’t wanna turn ya into a toad.  Or ash.
[If CHARNAME is a full caster, even a multiclassed/dualed one - Bard, Cleric, Druid, Shaman, Sor, or Wiz] I have an idea.
CARLISLE: <Carlisle sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: Fine.  What?
What about changing spell durations instead of working around Permanency?  This way, you might be able to synchronize spell durations.
CARLISLE: Already considered it, but I didn’t think much about it.  I’ll look into it more.  If it works ‘n’ this whole -project- works, I’ll add yer name as a research assistant.
What about that reward I was promised?
CARLISLE: I’ll set the Inn Bot’s prices to give you a discount.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: But House Cannith authorized me to give you exactly -one- of these rewards.  Whatever items you don’t pick, I’ll put on the Inn Bot at the discounted price.
[If the party gave him an Adamantine Golem] 60,000 gold.
CARLISLE: You sure?
CARLISLE: Alright.  Pick again.
60,000 gold?  It’s a deal.
CARLISLE: Sure.  Have a payday.  You earned it!
[If the party gave him a Mithral Golem] 30,000 gold.
CARLISLE: You sure?
CARLISLE: Alright.  Pick again.
30,000 gold?  It’s a deal.
CARLISLE: Sure.  Have a payday.  You earned it!
[If the party gave him an Adamantine Golem AND a Mithral Golem] 100,000 gold.
CARLISLE: You sure?
CARLISLE: Alright.  Pick again.
100,000 gold?  It’s a deal.
CARLISLE: Sure.  Have a payday.  You earned it!
A Repeating Light Crossbow +5, “Acid Bath.”
CARLISLE: This baby’s pretty fast firin’ and it shoots an infinite amount of +3 grade bolts that splash their targets ‘n’ the area around ‘em with acid.
CARLISLE: Alright.  Pick again.
Acid Bath?  It’s a deal.
CARLISLE: Sure.  Watch where ya aim!  Friendly fire ain’t friendly or fire!  <The party receives an Acid Bath +5.>
Crafter’s Chain +6
CARLISLE: This chainmail’s pretty light.  It lets casters ‘n’ rogues do their things unhindered.  Also helps caster levels, prevents fatigue, ‘n’ regenerates health slowly.
CARLISLE: Alright.  Pick again.
Crafter’s Chain?  It’s a deal.
CARLISLE: Sure.  Don’t stay up all night just cause ya can!  <The party receives a Crafter’s Chain +6.>
Golemsmith’s Belt
CARLISLE: This belt’s a wonder!  It stops the pain from acid, fire, ‘n’ lightning!  It also lets ya fix yer constructs a few times a day.  One of my favorite rewards.
CARLISLE: Alright.  Pick again.
Golemsmith’s Belt?  It’s a deal, and a reward with a fitting name.
CARLISLE: You bet!  This might be the best reward of ‘em all!  <The party receives a Golemsmith’s Belt.>
Red Shift Boots
CARLISLE: These boots lemme run around fast like Boots of Speed, AND they cast Haste and Dimension Door on myself a couple times per day each.  Prolly my other favorite reward.
CARLISLE: Alright.  Pick again.
Red Shift Boots?  It’s a deal.
CARLISLE: Run, run, as fast as ya can!  Warp afterward if yer a fan!  <The party receives Red Shift Boots.>
Ring of Force Field
CARLISLE: When I was plane hoppin’, this thing saved my life a few times.  Too many planar pirates brought the pain.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: But this thing prevented critical hits on me, gave me an always-on Shield spell, ‘n’ immunity to force damage like with those damn Magic Missiles that always hit!  It also casts Globe of Invulnerability a couple times per day.
CARLISLE: Alright.  Pick again.
A Ring of Force Field?  It’s a deal.  Maybe it’ll also save my life.
CARLISLE: You bet!  Yer prolly in the field a lot, so put it on before someone tries killin’ ya!  <The party receives a Ring of Force Field.>
Enjoy life in your Portable Hole.  We may speak again.
CARLISLE: Alright.  Enjoy.  <END DIALOG.>
God Bot
GOD BOT: Welcome, patron, to my Temple of the Lord of Blades!  I am your intermediary - a priest nicknamed ‘God Bot’ in the common tongue.  How may I assist you?
Let’s see your goods and services.
<Show shop screen.>
You’re an automated priest!  What happened?
GOD BOT: Do you know nothing of the machine deity, the Lord of Blades?  On my home plane of Eberron, he is a famous figure, especially among constructs.
What is your true name?
GOD BOT: I am not allowed to share this information for the sake of security.  You may call me God Bot or Nigel.
Why do you look like a flesh golem?
GOD BOT: I was created as a true construct and gifted the spark of a soul by House Cannith of Eberron through means unknown to me.  Since then, I have felt a strong connection to the divine, and when the Lord of Blades noticed my soul, he counted me worthy to be one of his followers.
How did you gain priestly powers?
GOD BOT: I do not know.  I suspect my soul was already an accomplished priest before it was implanted within me.
What can you tell me of the Lord of Blades?
GOD BOT: The Lord of Blades is a Warforged, a biological construct that has a soul and free will like a Human.  The Lord of Blades has only called out to Warforged and other constructs with souls.  Biological beings have their own gods.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GOD BOT: I share what knowledge of him I have - however little - and in exchange I am granted Clerical powers.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GOD BOT: If the Lord of Blades is one being or a collective of beings operating in tandem, I know not.  My deity has been an elusive figure.
Why serve a deity you know so little about?
GOD BOT: I -know- that he called me after I received my soul.  That was ample evidence for me.  Perhaps you responded similarly when your deity called to you.
What can you tell me of your creator?
GOD BOT: I know nothing before the moment I was awakened by a soul.  I thought biological beings were also this way.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GOD BOT: However, I heard Carlisle was one of several House Cannith members who were involved in granting me this soul through an experimental procedure.
How did you end up here?
GOD BOT: I was told a House Cannith member named Carlisle was studying me for my worship of the Lord of Blades.  Beyond this, I simply cannot say.
How did the other constructs end up here?
GOD BOT: None of us know.  I suspect Carlisle knows, but he was absent for a long time - perhaps years of Prime Material Plane time.
How do you not know what happened?
GOD BOT: How do you, like other biological beings, not know how you arrived where and when you did?
We may talk later.
GOD BOT: The Lord of Blades shines his favor on all constructed beings with souls!  <END DIALOG.>
Inn Bot
INN BOT: Welcome, thrill-seeker, to the Portable Hole Tavern!  How may I be of service?
Let’s see your inn-related goods and services.
<Show shop screen.>
I wish to deposit coins here for safekeeping or I wish to withdraw them.
INN BOT: You certainly can.  I shall store your coins here for you.  I do not pay interest like some banks do.
Your balance is <BALANCE> coins and you have <COINS> on hand.
[If <COINS> is at least 1] I wish to deposit money.
INN BOT: Your balance is <BALANCE> coins and you have <COINS> coins on hand.  How much will you deposit?
[If <COINS> is at least 1] I’ll deposit ALL my money on hand.
INN BOT: Thank you for depositing your money into the Portable Hole Banking System.  Enjoy your day.  <<BALANCE> increases by the party’s coin count and the party’s coins are set to 0.>
[If <COINS> is at least 500] I’ll deposit 500 coins.
INN BOT: Thank you for depositing your 500 coins into the Portable Hole Banking System.  Enjoy your day.  <<BALANCE> increases by 500 and <COINS> decreases by the same amount.>
[If <COINS> is at least 1000] I’ll deposit 1000 coins.
INN BOT: Thank you for depositing your 1000 coins into the Portable Hole Banking System.  Enjoy your day.  <<BALANCE> increases by 1000 and <COINS> decreases by the same amount.>
[If <COINS> is at least 2000] I’ll deposit 2000 coins.
INN BOT: Thank you for depositing your 2000 coins into the Portable Hole Banking System.  Enjoy your day.  <<BALANCE> increases by 2000 and <COINS> decreases by the same amount.>
[If <COINS> is at least 5000] I’ll deposit 5000 coins.
INN BOT: Thank you for depositing your 5000 coins into the Portable Hole Banking System.  Enjoy your day.  <<BALANCE> increases by 5000 and <COINS> decreases by the same amount.>
[If <COINS> is at least 10,000] I’ll deposit 10,000 coins.
INN BOT: Thank you for depositing your 10,000 coins into the Portable Hole Banking System.  Enjoy your day.  <<BALANCE> increases by 10,000 and <COINS> decreases by the same amount.>
[If <COINS> is at least 20,000] I’ll deposit 10,000 coins.
INN BOT: Thank you for depositing your 20,000 coins into the Portable Hole Banking System.  Enjoy your day.  <<BALANCE> increases by 20,000 and <COINS> decreases by the same amount.>
[If <COINS> is at least 50,000] I’ll deposit 50,000 coins.
INN BOT: Thank you for depositing your 50,000 coins into the Portable Hole Banking System.  Enjoy your day.  <<BALANCE> increases by 50,000 and <COINS> decreases by the same amount.>
[If <COINS> is at least 100,000] I’ll deposit 100,000 coins.
INN BOT: Thank you for depositing your 100,000 coins into the Portable Hole Banking System.  Enjoy your day.  <<BALANCE> increases by 100,000 and <COINS> decreases by the same amount.>
I am done depositing for now.
<Return to previous menu.>
[If the balance is at least 1] I wish to withdraw money.
INN BOT: Your balance is <BALANCE> coins and you have <COINS> coins on hand.  How much will you withdraw?
I’ll withdraw ALL my deposited money.
INN BOT: Thank you.  Enjoy your money.  <The party gains <BALANCE> coins and the balance is set to 0.>
[If <BALANCE> is at least 500] I’ll withdraw 500 coins.
INN BOT: Thank you.  Enjoy your 500 coins.  <The party gains 500 coins and the balance is reduced by this amount.>
[If <BALANCE> is at least 1000] I’ll withdraw 1000 coins.
INN BOT: Thank you.  Enjoy your 1000 coins.  <The party gains 1000 coins and the balance is reduced by this amount.>
[If <BALANCE> is at least 2000] I’ll withdraw 2000 coins.
INN BOT: Thank you.  Enjoy your 2000 coins.  <The party gains 2000 coins and the balance is reduced by this amount.>
[If <BALANCE> is at least 5000] I’ll withdraw 5000 coins.
INN BOT: Thank you.  Enjoy your 5000 coins.  <The party gains 5000 coins and the balance is reduced by this amount.>
[If <BALANCE> is at least 10,000] I’ll withdraw 10,000 coins.
INN BOT: Thank you.  Enjoy your 10,000 coins.  <The party gains 10,000 coins and the balance is reduced by this amount.>
[If <BALANCE> is at least 20,000] I’ll withdraw 20,000 coins.
INN BOT: Thank you.  Enjoy your 20,000 coins.  <The party gains 20,000 coins and the balance is reduced by this amount.>
[If <BALANCE> is at least 50,000] I’ll withdraw 50,000 coins.
INN BOT: Thank you.  Enjoy your 50,000 coins.  <The party gains 50,000 coins and the balance is reduced by this amount.>
[If <BALANCE> is at least 100,000] I’ll withdraw 100,000 coins.
INN BOT: Thank you.  Enjoy your 100,000 coins.  <The party gains 100,000 coins and the balance is reduced by this amount.>
I am done withdrawing for now.
<Return to previous menu.>
Nevermind.  Let’s discuss something else.
<Return to previous menu.>
You’re an automated innkeeper!  What happened?
INN BOT: I was programmed by Carlisle, a renowned House Cannith Human Artificer.  He created me to perform hospitality duties in times of war and peace.
Why do you look like a warrior?
INN BOT: As I said, I was created to perform hospitality duties in times of war as well as peace.  I was granted these abilities to better perform my designated operation.
What can you tell me of House Cannith or Carlisle, your creator?
INN BOT: Accessing…
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
INN BOT: Carlisle was a 34-year-old Human Male with pale skin, curly black hair, and a goatee.  He was an Artificer by trade and quickly rose through the ranks of House Cannith.  His father was also an Artificer who believed in his son enough to richly fund his many projects.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
INN BOT: For reasons unknown to me, Carlisle’s family had a history of never dying.  They simply... disappeared.
What do you think happened to Carlisle’s family that they never left corpses?
INN BOT: Such speculation is beyond my programming, <CHARNAME>.
Tell me more about House Cannith.
INN BOT: House Cannith is famous around the plane of Eberron for their creation of Warforged, or sentient machines that also had some organic parts.  They also were the primary source of metaphysical innovation on Eberron, having been either fully or partially responsible for many wonderful inventions such as elemental binding devices, clockwork armor, and turrets that shot arcane energy at high velocity.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
INN BOT: House Cannith was also known for crafting more common items such as enchanted weapons and armor.
How did you end up here?
INN BOT: I do not know.  I suspect House Cannith’s experiments with planar travel and extradimensional spaces put me here accidentally.  Perhaps this was a way for Carlisle to silently dispose of me in a dignified manner.
How did the other constructs end up here?
INN BOT: I also do not know.  I suspect we were in close proximity to one another when a planar rift swallowed us and left us here.
How do you not know what happened?
INN BOT: Either I was deactivated during this time or it happened in such a manner that was beyond my ability to understand and relay this information.  I apologize.
We may talk later.
INN BOT: Thank you.  Goodbye!  <END DIALOG.>
Juke Bot
JUKE BOT: WELCOME.  I AM MRK.  I AM FROM THE MOURNLANDS OF EBERRON.  I WAS A CONSTRUCT CALLED A JUKE BOT PROGRAMMED TO ASSIST IN MUSIC, DANCING, AND REVELRIES.
What songs do you know?
JUKE BOX: PLEASE PUSH THE BUTTON ON MY BODY CORRESPONDING TO YOUR DESIRED SELECTION.
<Insert song list and a ‘Nevermind’ option at the end.>
I’d rather hear no music right now.
JUKE: ENJOY YOUR SILENCE.
Nevermind.  Don’t change the music around here now.
JUKE: AS YOU SAY.
You’re an automated music box!  What happened?
JUKE BOT: THAT IS MY FUNCTION.  WHAT IS YOUR COMMAND?
Are you sentient?
JUKE BOT: I AM ONLY AS SENTIENT AS I WAS PROGRAMMED.
What can you tell me of your creator?
JUKE BOT: CARLISLE OF HOUSE CANNITH OF EBERRON CREATED ME TO HELP SERVE ANY GUESTS HE BROUGHT HERE WITH A VARIETY OF TUNES.
How did you end up here?
JUKE BOT: I WAS PUT INTO A PORTABLE HOLE THEN ARRANGED AS FURNITURE.  I KNOW NOTHING ELSE ON THIS TOPIC.
How did the other constructs end up here?
JUKE BOT: LOGICALLY, THEY WERE PUT INTO THE SAME PORTABLE HOLE.
Bye now.
JUKE BOT: PLEASE ENJOY LIFE RESPONSIBLY.  THANK YOU.  <END DIALOG.>
ALL: INN BOT INVENTORY
                                                   * The Inn Bot has many shop files associated with it.  Initially, it has only the inn inventory which is blank.  If Carlisle lives through the initial encounter with the party in the Portable Hole, the Inn Bot also adds its remaining stores which sell a specific item type (armor, melee weapons, etc.) but also buy only that type except where noted.
                                                   * The Inn Bot initially sells all items in all its shops for 125% of their price and buys items from the party for 50%.  After finishing the quest Carlisle’s Metal Perfection, the Inn Bot instead sells its items for 110% of base and buys items for 55%.
                                                   * Reputation and CHA affect prices as normal.
                                                   * The Inn Bot has 100 Lore and 0% item depreciation.
                                                   * The Inn Bot offers free item identification.  (God Bot also offers free item identification.)
                                                   * Unless otherwise stated, all items are sold at their normal base price as modified by the shop price.  For example, an Oil of Speed is sold for 500G (its base price) * the shop’s sell price multiplier (1.25 initially or 1.1 after quest completion) * the multiplier for the lead character’s CHA score * the multiplier for the party’s reputation.
                                                   * Some items have nonstandard prices.  This is intentional.  For example, after finishing Carlisle’s Metal Perfection, the chest piece store adds 1 Robe of Vecna to its stock with a base price of 50,000G.
                                                   * At various points in the game, various shops add stock.  Normally, these new items come from main story progression or completing Carlisle’s Metal Perfection quest.
                                                   * The organization of the categories of items below is intentional and corresponds to the order in which the store categories are listed.  From top to bottom, they are:
                                                      * Miscellany.  (All item types can be sold here, which is why it’s listed first - player convenience.)
                                                      * Amulets & Neck-Worn Items.
                                                      * Belts & Waist-Worn Items.
                                                      * Boots & Footgear.
                                                      * Chest Pieces: Leather, chain, plate, clothes, robes, etc.
                                                      * Cloaks & Capes
                                                      * Gloves, Bracers, and Hand Slot Items
                                                      * Helmets & Headgear
                                                      * Melee & Thrown Weapons
                                                      * Potions
                                                      * Ranged Weapons & Ammo
                                                      * Rings
                                                      * Ranged Weapons & Ammo
                                                      * Scrolls
                                                      * Shields
                                                      * Weapon Coatings
Miscellany (Initial Stock)
NOTE: This shop sells items of various categories and can buy ALL types of items that shops can buy.
                                                         * Stat Tomes - 1 of Each Type (STR, DEX, CON, INT, WIS, CHA) (base price ~25,000G each) - x1 each
                                                         * Bag of Holding (base price ~12,000G) - no limit
                                                         * Gem Bag - no limit
                                                         * Potion Case - no limit
                                                         * Scroll Case - no limit
                                                         * [If EET Tweaks’s Wand Case component OR More Style for Mages’s Wand Case component is installed] Wand Case - no limit
Pocket Constructs
                                                            * Pocket Construct: Clay Golem - no limit
                                                            * Pocket Construct: Stone Golem - no limit
                                                            * Pocket Construct: Iron Golem - no limit
                                                               * Autoscribing Quill (base price ~100G) - no limit
                                                               * Bottle of Wine - no limit
                                                               * Glasses of Identification - no limit
                                                               * {if Lichdom is installed] Lich Dust x1
                                                               * Rally Beacon (base price ~100G) - no limit
                                                               * Reed of Echoes - no limit
                                                               * Rod of Resurrection - no limit
                                                               * Shiny Stone (base price ~100G) - no limit
                                                               * Speed Stone (base price ~10,000G) - no limit
                                                               * Spell Essence Gem of Slowed Spell Potency I/II/III (base price ~2000G/4000G/8,000G) - no limit
                                                               * Weapon Essence Gem +2 (base price ~1,500G) - no limit
                                                               * Weapon Essence Gem +3 (base price ~3,000G) - no limit, requires 3+ partner points to buy
Miscellany (Start of Shadows of Amn)
NOTE: This shop sells items of various categories and can buy ALL types of items that shops can buy.
These items are added to the stock at the start of BGII: Shadows of Amn.
                                                                  * Stat Tomes - 1 of Each Type (STR, DEX, CON, INT, WIS, CHA) (base price ~25,000G each) - x1 each
                                                                  * Weapon Essence Gem +4 (base price ~6,000G) - no limit
Miscellany (Finished Carlisle’s Metal Perfection quest)
NOTE: This shop sells items of various categories and can buy ALL types of items that shops can buy.
These items are added to the stock at the start of BGII: Shadows of Amn.
                                                                  * Stat Tomes - 1 of Each Type (STR, DEX, CON, INT, WIS, CHA) (base price ~25,000G each) - x1 each
                                                                  * Weapon Essence Gem +5 (base price ~10,000G) - no limit
Amulets & Neck Slot Items (Initial)
                                                                  * Amplifier/Metaspell Influence Amulet - no limit
                                                                  * Amulet of Magical Alacrity +1 (base price ~5,000G)
                                                                  * Amulet of Magical Alacrity +2 (base price ~10,000G)
                                                                  * Amulet of Martial Alacrity +1 (base price ~5000G)
                                                                  * Amulet of Martial Alacrity +2 (base price ~10,000G)
                                                                  * Amulet of Protection +2 - no limit
                                                                  * Amulet of Quickened Turning (base price ~5000G) - no limit
                                                                  * Amulet of Whispers [SoD] - no limit
                                                                  * Archer’s Eyes - no limit
                                                                  * Barrier Amulet (base price ~5,000G) - no limit
                                                                  * Black Wolf Talisman (base price ~5,000G) - no limit
                                                                  * Caster’s Amulet (Improved) (base price ~5000G) - no limit
                                                                  * Clasp of Bron’s Cloak (base price ~5,000G) - no limit
                                                                  * Locket of Embracing - no limit
                                                                  * Medal of Valor - no limit
                                                                  * Mirror of Black Ice Amulet (base price ~15,000G) - no limit
                                                                  * Periapt of Proof Against Poison - no limit
                                                                  * Sensate Amulet - no limit
                                                                  * Shield Amulet - no limit
                                                                  * Symbol of Corellon Larethian - no limit
                                                                  * Symbol of Labelas Enoreth - no limit
                                                                  * Symbol of Sehanine Moonbow - no limit
                                                                  * Symbol of Shevarash (base price ~100G) - no limit
                                                                  * Symbol of Solonar Thelandira (base price ~3000G) - no limit
                                                                  * Troll Heart on a String (base price ~8,000G)
Amulets & Neck Slot Items (Shadows of Amn Start)
                                                                     * Amulet of Power (base price ~20,000G) - no limit
Amulets & Neck Slot Items (Finished Carlisle’s Metal Perfection quest)
                                                                     * Greenstone Amulet x1
                                                                     * Kossuth’s Blood - x1
Belts & Waist-Worn Items (Initial Stock)
NOTE: This shop sells and can buy waist-worn items such as belts.
                                                                        * Agile Belt (base price ~8000G) - no limit
                                                                        * Belt of the Antipode - no limit
                                                                        * Belt of Inertial Barrier - no limit
                                                                        * Belt of the Skillful Blade [SoD] - no limit
                                                                        * Belt of Truth (base price ~15,000G) - no limit
                                                                        * Brute’s Belt (base price ~8000G) - no limit
                                                                        * Caravan Belt (base price ~500G) - no limit
                                                                        * Cloverleaf [SoD] - no limit
                                                                        * Girdle of Beatification - no limit
                                                                        * Girdle of Bluntness - no limit
                                                                        * Girdle of Fortitude - no limit
                                                                        * Girdle of Hill Giant Strength - no limit
                                                                        * Girdle of Labelas (base price ~22,000G) - x2
                                                                        * Girdle of Masculinity/Femininity - no limit
                                                                        * Girdle of Ogre Blood (base price ~12,000G) - no limit
                                                                        * Girdle of Piercing - no limit
                                                                        * Girdle of Stone Giant Strength (base price ~20,000G) - no limit
                                                                        * Girdle of Piercing - no limit
                                                                        * Golden Girdle - no limit
                                                                        * Hardy Belt (base price ~8000G) - no limit
                                                                        * Heatward Belt (base price ~16,000G) - no limit
                                                                        * Shimmering Sash (base price ~16,000G) - no limit
                                                                        * Trouserfang Belt (base price ~5000G) - no limit
Belts & Waist-Worn Items: (Finished Carlisle’s Metal Perfection quest)
NOTE: This shop sells and can buy waist-worn items such as belts.
                                                                           * Girdle of Frost Giant Strength - no limit
                                                                           * Golemsmith’s Belt - no limit
Boots & Footgear (Initial)
NOTE: This shop sells and can buy foot-worn items such as boots.
                                                                              * Boots of Avoidance - no limit
                                                                              * Boots of the Forgotten Ones - no limit
                                                                              * Boots of Grounding - no limit
                                                                              * Boots of the North - no limit
                                                                              * Boots of Etherealness - no limit
                                                                              * Boots of Solid Footing (base price ~500G) - no limit
                                                                              * Boots of Speed (base price ~5000G) - no limit [You’re welcome!]
                                                                              * Boots of Stealth - no limit
                                                                              * Boots of Phasing - no limit
                                                                              * Boots of the West - no limit
                                                                              * Shoes of Peace (base price ~500G) - no limit
                                                                              * Sidestep Slippers [SoD] - no limit
                                                                              * Soft Feet [SoD] - no limit
                                                                              * Trollhide Boots (base price ~9000G) - no limit
Boots and Footgear (Finished Carlisle’s Metal Perfection quest)
NOTE: This shop sells footgear and only buys footgear.
                                                                                 * Gargoyle Boots x1
                                                                                 * Red Shift Boots - no limit
Chest Pieces: Body Armor, Clothes, and Robes (Initial Stock)
NOTE: This shop sells and can buy chest pieces - body armor, robes, and clothes.
Medium Armor
                                                                                    * Aeger’s Hide x1
                                                                                    * Armor of the Deep Night Studded Leather +4 - no limit
                                                                                    * Brutish Skins +4 (base price ~10,000G) - no limit
                                                                                    * Dragonscale Armor [SoD] - no limit
                                                                                    * Karajah’s Lift and Death Leather +3 - no limit
                                                                                    * Reinforced Leather +1 - no limit
                                                                                    * Sacred Skins +4 (base price ~10,000G) - no limit
                                                                                    * Shadow Armor Leather +6 (base price ~15,000G) - x1
                                                                                    * Skin of the Ghoul - no limit
                                                                                    * Studded Leather Armor +4: Shadowed - no limit, requires 8+ partner points to buy
                                                                                    * Trollheart Hide +4 (base price ~18,00G) - no limit, requires 4+ partner points to buy
                                                                                    * White Dragon Scale x1 (base price ~17,000G)
Heavy Armor
                                                                                       * Arcane Chain +3 (base price ~17,000G) - no limit
                                                                                       * Arcane Plate +3 (base price ~32,000G) - no limit
                                                                                       * Black Swan Armor - x1
                                                                                       * Elven Chain +1 - no limit
                                                                                       * Faith Plate +3 (base price ~22,000G) - no limit
                                                                                       * Full Plate Mail +1 - no limit
                                                                                       * Full Plate Mail +2 - no limit
                                                                                       * Grave Plate +3 (base price ~20,000G) - no limit
                                                                                       * Haste Plate +3 (base price ~23,000G) - no limit
                                                                                       * Mail of Life - no limit
                                                                                       * Mithral Field Plate +2 - no limit
                                                                                       * Plate of Elemental Earth +3 (base price ~27,000G) - no limit
                                                                                       * Prismatic Plate +3 (base price ~20,000G) - no limit
                                                                                       * Rhino Beetle Plate - no limit
                                                                                       * Rogue’s Plate +3 (base price ~25,000G) - no limit
                                                                                       * Shadowed Plate - no limit
                                                                                       * Spell Stopping Plate +3 (base price ~32,000G) - no limit
                                                                                       * Trollheart Plate +3 (base price ~26,000G) - no limit
                                                                                       * Valorous Plate +3 (base price ~20,000G) - no limit
                                                                                       * Winter King’s Plate - no limit
                                                                                          * Lifeweave Robe (base price ~12,000G) - no limit
                                                                                          * Loremaster’s Robe (only +3 version, base price ~13,000G) - no limit
                                                                                          * Mage Robe of Resistance to Cold/Electricity/Fire (base price ~6000G) - no limit
                                                                                          * Mystic Theurge’s Robe II (base price ~6000G) - no limit
                                                                                          * Mystic Theurge’s Robe III (base price ~12,00G) - no limit
                                                                                          * Mystic Theurge’s Robe IV (base price ~20,000G) - no limit
                                                                                          * Org-Luc’s Great Robe - x1
                                                                                          * Prismatic Robe (base price ~8,000G) - no limit
                                                                                          * Robe of Armory - no limit
                                                                                          * Robe of Arcane Aptitude [SoD] - no limit
                                                                                          * Robe of the Archmage (Good/Neutral) - no limit
                                                                                          * Robe of Enfusing - no limit
                                                                                          * Robe of the Hand (base price ~15,000G) - no limit
                                                                                          * Robe of the Spell School (Abjurer, Conjurer, Dragon Disciple, Universalist, etc.) (base price ~15,000G each)
                                                                                          * Robe of the Watcher (base price ~30,000G) - no limit
                                                                                          * Thermalweave Robe (base price ~16,000G) - no limit
                                                                                          * Thunderweave Robe (base price ~10,000G) - no limit
                                                                                          * Ward Robe (base price ~7000G) - no limit
Chest Pieces: Body Armor, Clothes, and Robes (Siege of Dragonspear start or Shadows of Amn start)
NOTE: This shop sells and can buy chest pieces - body armor, robes, and clothes.
On an EET game, add these to the inventory at the start of SoD.  Otherwise, they’re available at the start of SoD or SoA if the campaigns are played separately.
Heavy Armor
                                                                                             * Magma Bulwark +2 - no limit
                                                                                                * Robe of Arcane Aptitude [SoD] - no limit
                                                                                                * Robe of Stone (base price ~20,000G) - no limit
Chest Pieces: Body Armor, Clothes, and Robes (Shadows of Amn start)
NOTE: This shop sells and can buy chest pieces - body armor, robes, and clothes.
On an EET game, add these to the inventory at the start of SoA.  Otherwise, they’re available at the start of SoA if the campaigns are played separately.
Medium Armor
                                                                                                   * Night’s Gift Leather +5 - x1
Heavy Armor
                                                                                                   * Bladesinger Chain +4 - x1
                                                                                                   * Crimson Chain Mail +5 - no limit
                                                                                                      * Robe of Arcane Aptitude [SoD] - no limit
                                                                                                      * Robe of Stone (base price ~20,000G) - no limit
Chest Pieces: Body Armor, Clothes, and Robes (Carlisle’s Metal Perfection quest done)
NOTE: This shop sells and can buy chest pieces - body armor, robes, and clothes.
Heavy Armor
                                                                                                         * Crafter’s Chain +5 - no limit
                                                                                                         * Robe of Vecna (base price ~50,000G) - x1
Cloaks & Capes (Initial)
                                                                                                         * Cloak of Bravery - no limit
                                                                                                         * Cloak of Burdened Spirits - no limit
                                                                                                         * Cloak of Displacement - no limit
                                                                                                         * Cloak of the Gargoyle [SoD] - no limit
                                                                                                         * Cloak of Minor Arcana [SoD] - no limit
                                                                                                         * Cloak of Nondetection - no limit
                                                                                                         * Cloak of Prismatic Colors (base price ~18,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                         * Cloak of Protection +1 - no limit
                                                                                                         * Cloak of Protection +2 - no limit
                                                                                                         * Cloak of Unerring Strikes - no limit
                                                                                                         * Cloak of Warded Life (base price ~8000G) - no limit
                                                                                                         * Escape Plan (base price ~8000G) - no limit
                                                                                                         * Reactive All-Temperature Cloak (base price ~8000G) - no limit
                                                                                                         * Reactive Cloaks of Acid/Cold/Electricity/Fire/Magic Damage Resistance (base price ~8000G) - no limit
Gloves, Bracers, and Hand Slot Items (Initial)
                                                                                                            * Agile Gloves - no limit
                                                                                                            * Balm of Gilead - no limit
                                                                                                            * Bracers of Archery - no limit
                                                                                                            * Bracers of AC 3 (base price ~10,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                            * Bracers of Perseverance [SoD] - no limit
                                                                                                            * Bracers of the Shuttered Lid [SoD] - no limit
                                                                                                            * Gauntlets of Crushing - no limit
                                                                                                            * Gauntlets of Dexterity - no limit
                                                                                                            * Gauntlets of Extraordinary Specialization (base price ~25,000G) - x1
                                                                                                            * Gauntlets of Ogre Power - no limit
                                                                                                            * Gauntlets of Weapon Expertise - no limit
                                                                                                            * Gauntlet of Valor - no limit
                                                                                                            * Gloves of Acidic Fists V (base price ~20,000G) - no limit, requires 5+ partner points to buy
                                                                                                            * Gloves of Burning Fists V (base price ~20,000G) - no limit, requires 5+ partner points to buy
                                                                                                            * Gloves of Electrifying Strikes V (base price ~30,000G) - no limit, requires 5+ partner points to buy
                                                                                                            * Gloves of Freezing Fists V (base price ~20,000G) - no limit, requires 5+ partner points to buy
                                                                                                            * Gloves of Healing - no limit
                                                                                                            * Gloves of Mighty Fists III (base price ~12,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                            * Gloves of Missile Snaring - no limit
                                                                                                            * Greatreach Bracers III (base price ~30,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                            * Hands of Right and Smite IV (base price ~30,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                            * Poison Stinger III (base price ~18,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                            * Riposting Bracers III (base price ~9,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                            * Troll Claws (base price ~16,000G) - no limit
Gloves, Bracers, and Hand Slot Items (Shadows of Amn Start)
                                                                                                               * Bracers of Spell Focus III (base price ~18,000G) - no limit, requires 7+ partner points to buy
                                                                                                               * Bracers of Spell Penetration III (base price ~15,000G) - no limit, requires 7+ partner points to buy
Gloves, Bracers, and Hand Slot Items (Finished Carlisle’s Metal Perfection Quest)
                                                                                                                  * Earth Hands (base price ~30,000G) x1 - item caster level is 20
                                                                                                                  * Gloves of Mighty Fists V (base price ~25,000G) - no limit
Golem Creation-Related Items (Initial)
NOTE: This shop sells items of various types and buys items of all types.
                                                                                                                     * [If component 2.1 from Golem Construction ISN’T installed] Golem Manual (summons a Flesh Golem 1/day) - x1
                                                                                                                     * [If component 2.1 from Golem Construction IS installed] Golem Manuals for Flesh, Clay, Stone, Iron, Mithral, and Steel Golems (Item codes A7!TOM01.ITM to A7!TOM06.ITM.) - no limit
                                                                                                                     * [If Golem Construction is installed] Scroll of Cloudkill - no limit
                                                                                                                     * [If Golem Construction is installed] Scroll of Cone of Cold - no limit
                                                                                                                     * [If Golem Construction is installed] Scroll of Haste - no limit
                                                                                                                     * [If Golem Construction is installed] Scroll of Protection from Cold - no limit
                                                                                                                     * [If Golem Construction is installed] Scroll of Slow - no limit
                                                                                                                     * [If Golem Construction is installed] Scroll of Repair Golem (item code a7!scgr1) (base price ~300G) - no limit
                                                                                                                     * [If Golem Construction is installed] Block of Clay - no limit
                                                                                                                     * [If Golem Construction is installed] Bag of Enchanted Coral Powder - no limit
                                                                                                                     * [If Golem Construction is installed] Block of Stone - no limit
                                                                                                                     * [If Golem Construction is installed] Vial of Mimic’s Blood - x5
                                                                                                                     * [If Golem Construction is installed] Bar of Iron - no limit
                                                                                                                     * [If Golem Construction is installed] Chips of Cold Iron - no limit
                                                                                                                     * [If Golem Construction is installed] Chunk of Mithral - x50
                                                                                                                     * [If Golem Construction is installed] Orb of Spectral Obsidian - x5
                                                                                                                     * [If Golem Construction is installed] Drop of Solar’s Blood - x3
                                                                                                                     * [If Golem Construction is installed] Pile of Bones - no limit
                                                                                                                     * [If Golem Construction is installed] Shard of Magical Ice - no limit
Golem Creation-Related Items (Finished Carlisle’s Metal Perfection quest)
NOTE: This shop sells items of various types and buys items of all types.
                                                                                                                        * [If Golem Construction is installed] Orb of Spectral Obsidian - no limit
                                                                                                                        * [If Golem Construction is installed] Drop of Solar’s Blood - no limit
Helmets & Headgear (Initial)
                                                                                                                           * Basic Helmets of all varieties - no limit
                                                                                                                           * Battle Tankard [SoD] - no limit
                                                                                                                           * Blessed Helm of Lathander - no limit
                                                                                                                           * Dead Man’s Face (base price ~7,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                           * Dragon Helm - no limit
                                                                                                                           * Helm of Charm Protection - no limit
                                                                                                                           * Helm of Equus [SoD] - no limit
                                                                                                                           * Helm of the Noble - no limit
                                                                                                                           * Helm of the Trusted Defender (base price ~9,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                           * Helm of Unwavering Purpose - no limit
                                                                                                                           * Helmet of Defense - no limit
                                                                                                                           * Helmet of Dumathoin [SoD] - no limit
                                                                                                                           * Helmet of Infravision - no limit
                                                                                                                           * Helmet of Salvation (base price ~18,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                           * Troll Skull (base price ~24,000G) - no limit
Hoods and Hats
                                                                                                                              * Cyclocone (base price ~20,000G) - no limit, requires 8+ partner points to buy
                                                                                                                              * Eversong Hood (base price ~3000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                              * Peacock Cap [SoD] - no limit
                                                                                                                              * Seer’s Hood [Improved Version Only] (base price ~10,000G)
                                                                                                                              * Shambler Hat (base price ~6000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                              * Sune’s Laurel of Favor - no limit
                                                                                                                              * Thinking Cap (base price ~15,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                              * Wizzard Hat [SoD] (base price ~8000G) - no limit
Ioun Stones
                                                                                                                                 * Blood Red Ioun Stone [SoD] (base price 12,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                 * Dusty Rose Ioun Stone (base price 1000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                 * Ioun Stone of Fortification (base price 100G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                 * Orange Ioun Stone (base price 9000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                 * Pale Green Ioun Stone - no limit
                                                                                                                                 * Pearly White Ioun Stone - no limit
                                                                                                                                 * Purification Stone [SoD] - no limit
                                                                                                                                 * Trollblood Ioun Stone [SoD] - no limit
Helmets & Headgear (Start of Shadows of Amn)
Hoods and Hats
                                                                                                                                    * Artificer’s Goggles
Helmets & Headgear (Finished Carlisle’s Metal Perfection Quest)
Hoods and Hats
                                                                                                                                    * Wizard’s Hat (base price ~20,000G, requires More Style for Mages to be installed first and we have the author Pecca’s permission to use and tweak his items in other mods) - no limit
Melee & Thrown Weapons (Initial)
NOTE: This shop sells and buys melee weapons and thrown weapons (except darts).
Axes & Throwing Axes
                                                                                                                                    * Battle Axe - no limit
                                                                                                                                    * +1 Battle Axe - no limit
                                                                                                                                    * +2 Battle Axe - no limit
                                                                                                                                    * +2 Battle Axe: Defender - no limit
                                                                                                                                    * +3 Battle Axe - no limit
                                                                                                                                    * +3 Battle Axe: Fatigue - no limit
                                                                                                                                    * Double-Headed Horror Battle Axe +3 (base price ~17,000G), requires 10+ partner points to buy
                                                                                                                                    * Double-Header Battle Axe +3 (base price ~17,000G), requires 10+ partner points to buy
                                                                                                                                    * Life Drinker Battle Axe +3 (base price ~17,000G), requires 10+ partner points to buy
                                                                                                                                    * Throwing Axe - no limit
                                                                                                                                    * +1 Throwing Axe - no limit
                                                                                                                                    * +2 Throwing Axe - no limit
                                                                                                                                    * Rifthome Axe +3 - no limit
                                                                                                                                    * Biggest Fan Throwing Axe +3 (base price ~17,000G), requires 10+ partner points to buy
Bastard Swords
                                                                                                                                       * Bastard Sword - no limit
                                                                                                                                       * +1 Bastard Sword - no limit
                                                                                                                                       * +2 Bastard Sword - no limit
                                                                                                                                       * +3 Amauntor’s Legacy - x1
                                                                                                                                       * +3 Bastard Sword - no limit
                                                                                                                                       * +3 Bastard Sword of Greater Phasing - no limit
                                                                                                                                       * +3 Defender - no limit
                                                                                                                                       * +3 Incinerator - no limit
                                                                                                                                       * Beloved of the Sun and Moon +3 (base price ~17,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                       * Heroic Bastard Sword +3 (base price ~17,000G) - no limit, requires 10+ partner points to buy
                                                                                                                                          * Club - no limit
                                                                                                                                          * +1 Club - no limit
                                                                                                                                          * +2 Club - no limit
                                                                                                                                          * +3 Club - no limit
                                                                                                                                          * Evil Spider Crusher of Doom +2, +4 vs. Spiders - x1
                                                                                                                                          * Ankheg Bopper Club +3 (base price ~17,000G) - no limit, requires 10+ partner points to buy
                                                                                                                                          * Bee Holder Club +3 (base price ~17,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                          * Casey’s Bat Club +3 (base price ~17,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                          * Napping Stick Club +3 (base price ~17,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                          * Stat Stick Club +3 (base price ~17,000G) - no limit
Daggers & Throwing Daggers
                                                                                                                                             * Dagger - no limit
                                                                                                                                             * +1 Dagger - no limit
                                                                                                                                             * +2 Dagger - no limit
                                                                                                                                             * +3 Dagger - no limit
                                                                                                                                             * +2 Dagger of Venom- no limit, requires 8+ partner points to buy
                                                                                                                                             * +2 Life Dagger (base price ~5,000G) - no limit, requires 10+ partner points to buy
                                                                                                                                             * +3 Breath of Auril - no limit
                                                                                                                                             * +3 Chaos Dagger - no limit
                                                                                                                                             * +3 Dagger of Safe Harbor - x1
                                                                                                                                             * +3 Mage Dagger (base price ~17,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                             * +3 Salamander’s Tongue - x1
                                                                                                                                             * Cloaking Dagger +3 (base price ~17,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                             * Throwing Dagger +1
                                                                                                                                             * Boomerang Dagger +2 - no limit
                                                                                                                                             * Return Flight Throwing Dagger +3 (base price ~17,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                * Flail - no limit
                                                                                                                                                * +1 Flail - no limit
                                                                                                                                                * +2 Flail - no limit
                                                                                                                                                * +3 Flail - no limit
                                                                                                                                                * Fast Flail +2 (base price ~12,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                   * Halberd - no limit
                                                                                                                                                   * +1 Halberd - no limit
                                                                                                                                                   * +2 Halberd - no limit
                                                                                                                                                   * +3 Halberd - no limit
                                                                                                                                                   * +3 Fayr’s Halberd (base price ~8,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                   * +3 Star Forged Halberd (base price ~17,000G) - requires 3+ partner points to buy
                                                                                                                                                   * Devil’s Beard Halberd +3 (base price ~17,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                   * Felling Beard Halberd +3 (base price ~17,000G) - no limit
Katanas - Sold by Strax
                                                                                                                                                      * Katana - no limit
                                                                                                                                                      * +1 Katana - no limit
                                                                                                                                                      * +2 Katana - no limit
                                                                                                                                                      * +3 Katana - no limit
                                                                                                                                                      * Heartbleed Katana +3 (base price ~17,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                      * Washing Pole Katana +5 (base price ~17,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                         * Longsword - no limit
                                                                                                                                                         * +1 Longsword - no limit
                                                                                                                                                         * +2 Longsword - no limit
                                                                                                                                                         * +3 Longsword - no limit
                                                                                                                                                         * +1 Flametongue - no limit
                                                                                                                                                         * +2 Daystar - no limit
                                                                                                                                                         * +3 Blade of Roses - no limit
                                                                                                                                                         * Sword of the Spirit +3 (base price ~17,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                            * Mace - no limit
                                                                                                                                                            * +1 Mace - no limit
                                                                                                                                                            * +2 Mace - no limit
                                                                                                                                                            * +3 Mace - no limit
                                                                                                                                                            * +2 Glimmer of Hope [SoD] - no limit
                                                                                                                                                            * Grave Sceptre Mace +3 (base price ~17,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                               * Morningstar - no limit
                                                                                                                                                               * +1 Morningstar - no limit
                                                                                                                                                               * +2 Morningstar - no limit
                                                                                                                                                               * +3 Morningstar - no limit
                                                                                                                                                               * +3 Giving Star - no limit
                                                                                                                                                               * +3 Morningstar of the Gods - no limit
                                                                                                                                                               * Falling Star Morningstar +3 (base price ~17,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                  * +1 Ninjato - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                  * +2 Ninjato - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                  * +3 Ninjato - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                  * Electric Eel Ninjato +3 (base price ~17,000G) - no limit, requires 10+ partner points to buy
                                                                                                                                                                  * Peaceful Rest Ninjato +3 (base price ~17,000G) - no limit, requires 10+ partner points to buy
Quarterstaves AKA Quarterstaffs
                                                                                                                                                                     * Quarterstaff - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                     * +1 Quarterstaff - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                     * +2 Quarterstaff - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                     * +3 Quarterstaff - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                     * Staff of Arundel +3 - x1
                                                                                                                                                                     * Staff of Curing - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                     * Staff of Earth +2 - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                     * Staff of Fire +2 - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                     * Staff Mace +2 - no limi
                                                                                                                                                                     * Staff Spear +2 - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                     * Acidic Branch Staff +5 (base price ~20,000G) - no limit, requires 10+ partner points to buy
                                                                                                                                                                     * Brambled Branch Staff +5 (base price ~20,000G) - no limit, requires 10+ partner points to buy
                                                                                                                                                                     * Divine Staff +5 (base price ~20,000G) - no limit, requires 10+ partner points to buy
                                                                                                                                                                     * Electrified Branch Staff +5 (base price ~20,000G) - no limit, requires 10+ partner points to buy
                                                                                                                                                                     * Entangling Staff +5 (base price ~20,000G) - no limit, requires 10+ partner points to buy
                                                                                                                                                                     * Felling Branch Staff +5 (base price ~20,000G) - no limit, requires 10+ partner points to buy
                                                                                                                                                                     * Freezing Branch Staff +5 (base price ~20,000G) - no limit, requires 10+ partner points to buy
                                                                                                                                                                     * Magic-Stopping Staff +5 (base price ~20,000G) - no limit, requires 10+ partner points to buy
                                                                                                                                                                     * Mystic Theurge’s Staff +5 (base price ~20,000G) - no limit, requires 10+ partner points to buy
                                                                                                                                                                     * Felling Branch Staff +5 (base price ~20,000G) - no limit, requires 10+ partner points to buy
                                                                                                                                                                     * Staff of the Arcanist +3 (base price ~25,000G) - no limit.  Staves of each type (Abjuration, Conjuration, Wyrm Way, etc.) are available.
                                                                                                                                                                        * Scimitar - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                        * +1 Scimitar - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                        * +2 Scimitar - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                        * +3 Scimitar - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                        * +2 Lucky Scimitar - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                        * Midnight Storm Scimitar +3 (base price ~17,000G) - no limit
Shortswords AKA Short Swords
                                                                                                                                                                           * Shortsword - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                           * +1 Shortsword - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                           * +2 Shortsword - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                           * +3 Shortsword - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                           * +1 Flaming Shortsword - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                           * +2 Arbane’s Sword of Agility - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                           * +3 Fractal Blade - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                           * +3 Static Shortsword (base price ~10,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                           * Gouger Shortsword +3 (base price ~17,000G) - no limit, requires 10+ partner points to buy
                                                                                                                                                                              * Spear - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                              * +1 Spear - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                              * +2 Spear - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                              * +3 Spear - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                              * +3 Spear of Kerish - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                              * +3 Spear of Kuldahar x1
                                                                                                                                                                              * +3 Spear of White Ash x1
                                                                                                                                                                              * Spear of Destiny +3 (base price ~17,000G) - no limit
Two-Handed Swords
                                                                                                                                                                                 * Two-Handed Sword - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                 * +1 Two-Handed Sword - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                 * +2 Two-Handed Sword - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                 * +3 Two-Handed Sword - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                 * +2 Spider’s Bane - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                 * +3 Dragon Blade [SoD] - x1
                                                                                                                                                                                 * Sunder Two-Handed Sword +3 (base price ~17,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                 * Two-Handed Sword of Ogre Decapitation +3 (base price ~17,000G) - no limit
War Hammers AKA Warhammers & Throwing Hammers
                                                                                                                                                                                    * War Hammer - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                    * +1 War Hammer - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                    * +2 War Hammer - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                    * +3 War Hammer - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                    * +2 Corrosive Hammer - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                    * +3 Sanctified War Hammer (base price ~9000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                    * +3 War Hammer of Phasing - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                    * Seeing Double Throwing Hammer +3 (base price ~17,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                    * War Hammer of the Spirit +3 (base price ~17,000G) - no limit
Melee & Thrown Weapons (Shadows of Amn Start)
NOTE: This shop sells and buys melee weapons and thrown weapons (except darts).
Axea and Throwing Axes
                                                                                                                                                                                       * +4 Battle Axe: Celebrant’s Blade (base price ~20,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                       * Club of Detonation +3 - no limit, requires 6+ partner points to buy
Daggers and Throwing Daggers
                                                                                                                                                                                       * +4 Mage Dagger (base price ~20,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                       * +4 Fang of the Gloomfrost (base price ~30,000G) - x1, requires 10+ partner points to buy - change flavor text
                                                                                                                                                                                          * Shocking Flail +4 (base price ~20,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                          * +4 Great Halberd (base price ~17,000G)
                                                                                                                                                                                          * +4 Long Cleaver (base price ~20,000G)
Quarterstaves AKA Quarterstaffs
                                                                                                                                                                                             * Staff of Rhynn +4 - no limit
Shortswords AKA Short Swords
                                                                                                                                                                                                * +4 Blood Iron - x1, requires 5+ partner points to buy
                                                                                                                                                                                                * +4 Shortsword of Health - no limit, requires 3+ partner points to buy
Two-Handed Swords
                                                                                                                                                                                                   * +4 Life-Giver - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                   * +4 Hand of the Gloomfrost x1 - change flavor text
                                                                                                                                                                                                   * +4 Static Two-Handed Sword (base price ~20,000G) - no limit
War Hammers AKA Warhammers & Throwing Hammers
                                                                                                                                                                                                      * +4 Blood of the Gloomfrost (base price ~25,000G) - x1, change flavor text
                                                                                                                                                                                                      * +4 Defender War Hammer (base price ~20,000G) - x1, requires 6+ partner points to buy
                                                                                                                                                                                                      * +4 Redemption (base price ~15,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                      * +4 Star-Forged War Hammer - no limit
Melee & Thrown Weapons (Finished Carlisle’s Metal Perfection Quest)
NOTE: This shop sells and buys melee weapons and thrown weapons (except darts).
Axes and Throwing Axes
                                                                                                                                                                                                         * +4 Battle Axe: Benorg’s Truth (base price ~25,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                         * Double-Headed Horror Battle Axe +5 (base price ~25,000G)
                                                                                                                                                                                                         * Double-Header Battle Axe +5 (base price ~25,000G)
                                                                                                                                                                                                         * Life Drinker Battle Axe +5 (base price ~25,000G)
                                                                                                                                                                                                         * Biggest Fan Throwing Axe +5 (base price ~25,000G), requires 10+ partner points to buy
Bastard Swords
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Beloved of the Sun and Moon +5 (base price ~25,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Heroic Bastard Sword +5 (base price ~25,000G) - no limit, requires 10+ partner points to buy
                                                                                                                                                                                                               * Ankheg Bopper Club +5 (base price ~25,000G) - no limit, requires 10+ partner points to buy
                                                                                                                                                                                                               * Bee Holder Club +5 (base price ~25,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                               * Casey’s Bat Club +5 (base price ~25,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                               * Napping Stick Club +5 (base price ~25,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                               * Stat Stick Club +5 (base price ~25,000G) - no limit
Daggers and Throwing Daggers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Cloaking Dagger +5 (base price ~25,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Return Flight Throwing Dagger +5 (base price ~25,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     * Whiplash Flail +5 (base price ~25,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     * Devil’s Beard Halberd +5 (base price ~25,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     * Felling Beard Halberd +5 (base price ~25,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Heartbleed Katana +5 (base price ~25,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Sword of the Star King Katana +5 (base price ~30,000G) - x1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Washing Pole Katana +5 (base price ~25,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           * +4 Longsword of Action (base price ~25,000G) x1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           * +4 Pale Justice (base price ~25,000G) x1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           * Sword of the Spirit +5 (base price ~25,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * +3 Three White Doves (base price ~25,00G) - x1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Grave Sceptre Mace +5 (base price ~25,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 * +4 Defending Morningstar (base price ~20,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 * +4 Morningstar of Action (base price ~22,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 * Falling Star Morningstar +5 (base price ~25,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Electric Eel Ninjato +5 (base price ~25,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Peaceful Rest Ninjato +5 (base price ~25,000G) - no limit
Quarterstaves AKA Quarterstaffs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       * Acidic Branch Staff +5 (base price ~25,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       * Brambled Branch Staff +5 (base price ~25,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       * Divine Staff +5 (base price ~25,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       * Electrified Branch Staff +5 (base price ~25,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       * Entangling Staff +5 (base price ~25,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       * Felling Branch Staff +5 (base price ~25,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       * Freezing Branch Staff +5 (base price ~25,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       * Magic-Stopping Staff +5 (base price ~25,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       * Mystic Theurge’s Staff +5 (base price ~25,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       * Staff of the Arcanist +5 (base price ~50,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * +4 Talon of the Gloomfrost - x1, change flavor text
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * +4 Wind of Heaven (base price ~20,000G) x1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Midnight Storm Scimitar +5 (base price ~25,000G) - no limit
Shortswords AKA Short Swords
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             * Gouger Shortsword +5 (base price ~25,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             * Spear of Destiny +5 (base price ~25,000G) - no limit
Two-Handed Swords
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             * Sunder Two-Handed Sword +5 (base price ~17,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             * Two-Handed Sword of Ogre Decapitation +5 (base price ~17,000G) - no limit
War Hammers AKA Warhammers & Throwing Hammers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Seeing Double Throwing Hammer +5 (base price ~25,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * War Hammer of the Spirit +5 (base price ~25,000G) - no limit
Potions, Drinks, and Bottles (Initial)
NOTE: This shop sells potions and only buys potions.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   * Bottle of Wine - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   * Antidote - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   * Brine Potion - no limit, requires 4+ partner points to buy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   * Elixir of Health - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   * Oil of Speed - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   * Potion of Absorption - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   * Potion of Agility - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   * Potion of Clarity - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   * Potion of Cold Resistance - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   * Potion of Defense - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   * Potion of Fire Resistance - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   * Potion of Fortitude - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   * Potion of Genius - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   * Potion of Healing - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   * Potion of Healing (Extra Healing) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Potion of Healing (Superior Healing) (base price ~1000G) - x10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Potion of Freedom - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Potion of Heroism - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Potion of Infravision - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Potion of Insight - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Potion of Insulation - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Potion of Invisibility - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Potion of Invulnerability - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Potion of Magic Blocking - no limit, requires 7+ partner points to buy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Potion of Magic Protection x15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Potion of Magic Shielding x10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Potion of Mind Focusing - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Potion of Mirrored Eyes (base price ~1000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Potion of Giant Strength (Stone Giant) [20 STR] - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Potion of Giant Strength (Frost Giant) [21 STR] - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Potion of Giant Strength (Fire Giant) [22 STR] x10 - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Potion of Giant Strength (Cloud Giant) [23 STR] x7 - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Potion of Giant Strength (Storm Giant) [24 STR] x2 - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Potion of Persuasiveness [SoD] - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Potion of Power (base price ~3500) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Potion of Regeneration - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Potion of Stone Form - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Potion of Strength - no limit
Potions, Drinks, and Bottles (Shadows of Amn Start)
NOTE: This shop sells potions and only buys potions.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * Potion of Giant Strength (Fire Giant) [22 STR] - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * Potion of Healing (Superior Healing) (base price ~1200G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * Potion of Power x10
Potions, Drinks, and Bottles (Finished Carlisle’s Metal Perfection quest)
NOTE: This shop sells potions and only buys potions.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Potion of Giant Strength (Cloud Giant) [23 STR] - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Potion of Giant Strength (Storm Giant) [24 STR] - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               * Red Potion - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               * Violet Potion - no limit
Ranged Weapons & Ammo (Carlisle’s Metal Perfection quest done)
NOTE: This shop sells and can buy ranged weapons and ammo.
Bows & Ammo (Shortbows & Longbows)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Short Shot Shortbow +5 (base price ~25,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Longbow of Longing +5 (base price ~25,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Singing String Longbow +5         (base price ~25,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Beastlord’s Composite Longbow +5 (base price ~25,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Prismatic Ray Composite Longbow +5 (base price ~25,000G) - no limit
Crossbows & Ammo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     * +5 Repeating Heavy Crossbow (base price ~20,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     * Flame Pillar Heavy Crossbow +5 (base price ~25,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     * Cloud Pillar Light Crossbow +5 (base price ~25,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     * Acid Bath Repeating Light Crossbow +5 - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Pinpoint Accuracy Dart +5 - no limit
Slings & Ammo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Hurricane Sling +5 - no limit
Ranged Weapons & Ammo - Bows, Crossbows, Darts, and Slings (Initial Stock)
NOTE: This shop sells and can buy ranged weapons (darts, slings, crossbows, shortbows, and longbows) and ammo.
Ammo Containers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Bag of Plenty +1 (base price ~5000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Case of Plenty +1 (base price ~5000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Quiver of Plenty +1 (base price ~5000G) - no limit
Bows & Ammo (Shortbows & Longbows)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           * Shortbow - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           * +1 Shortbow - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           * +2 Shortbow - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           * +3 Shortbow - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           * Short Shot Shortbow +3 (base price ~17,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           * Fleshripper - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           * Savage Shortbow [SoD] - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           * Longbow - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           * +1 Longbow - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           * +2 Longbow - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           * +3 Longbow - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           * Longbow of Longing +3 (base price ~17,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           * Singing String Longbow +3 (base price ~17,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           * Bow of the Banshee [SoD] - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           * Elven Court Bow - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           * Composite Longbow - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           * +1 Composite Longbow - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           * +2 Composite Longbow - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           * +3 Composite Longbow - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           * Prismatic Ray Composite Longbow +3 (base price ~17,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           * Arrow - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           * +1 Arrow - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           * +2 Arrow - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           * +3 Arrow - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           * +5 Arrow (base price ~200G) - no limit, requires 5+ partner points to buy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           * Arrow of Antimagic +1 - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           * Arrow of Biting - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           * Arrow of Detonation - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           * Arrow of Dispelling - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           * Arrow of Fire - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           * Arrow of Ice - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           * Arrow of Piercing - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           * Arrow of Slaying - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           * Inferno Arrows +2 - no limit
Crossbows & Bolts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Heavy Crossbow - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * +1 Heavy Crossbow - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * +2 Heavy Crossbow - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * +3 Heavy Crossbow - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Flame Pillar Heavy Crossbow +3 (base price ~17,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * +4 Heavy Crossbow of Speed (base price ~22,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * +1 Light Crossbow - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * +2 Light Crossbow - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * +3 Light Crossbow - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * +1 Light Crossbow of Speed +1 - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * +3 Repeating Light Crossbow (base price ~13,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Cloud Pillar Light Crossbow +3 (base price ~17,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Bolt - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * +1 Bolt - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * +2 Bolt - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * +3 Bolt - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Blessed Bolt (base price ~120G each) - no limit, should also auto-kill Rakshasa and bypass magic resistance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Bolt of Biting - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Bolt of Fire - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Bolt of Ice +1 - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Bolt of Lightning - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Bolt of Polymorphing - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Paralytic Bolt (base price ~120G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 * Dart - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 * +1 Dart - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 * +2 Dart - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 * Dart of Stunning (base price 350G each) - no limit, requires 4+ partner points to buy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 * Dart of Wounding - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 * +1 Dart of Acid - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 * +2 Zilzander’s Magnificent Darts - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 * +3 Static Darts - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 * +4 Inferno Darts - no limit, requires 6+ partner points to buy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 * Pinpoint Accuracy Dart +3 (base price ~17,000G) - no limit
Slings & Ammo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Sling - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * +1 Sling - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * +2 Sling - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * +3 Sling - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Hurricane Sling +3 (base price ~17,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Bullet - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * +1 Bullet - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * +2 Bullet - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * +3 Bullet - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * +3 Force Bullet - no limit, requires 5+ partner points to buy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Bullet of Darkness - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Bullet of Electricity - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Bullet of Fire - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Bullet of Ice - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Sunstone Bullet - no limit
Ranged Weapons & Ammo (Shadows of Amn Start)
NOTE: This shop sells and can buy ranged weapons and ammo.
Bows & Ammo (Shortbows & Longbows)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       * +5 Arrows (base price ~200G each) - no limit
Crossbows & Ammo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       * +5 Bolts (base price ~200G each) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * +5 Bullets (base price ~200G each) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             * +5 Darts (base price ~200G each) - no limit
Rings (Initial)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             * Agile Ring (base price ~8000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             * Brute’s Ring (base price ~8000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             * Claw of Kazgaroth x1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             * Evermemory AKA Ring of Wizardry I - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             * Graceful Ring (base price ~8000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             * Hardy Ring (base price ~8000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             * Intellectual’s Ring (base price ~8000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             * Kontik’s Ring of Wizardry - x1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             * Ring of Air Control x1 - buyable once the party has 5+ partner points
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             * Ring of Acuity - no limit, buyable once the party has 3+ partner points
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             * Ring of Altered Life Essence (base price ~20,000G) - no limit, buyable once the party has 10+ partner points
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             * Rings of Amplified Acid/Cold/Electricity/Fire/Magic Damage (base price ~10,000G) - no limit, each buyable once the party has 10+ partner points
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             * Rings of Amplified Healing Given (base price ~3000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             * Rings of Amplified Healing Received (base price ~3000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             * Ring of Animal Friendship - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             * Rings of Bane: Arcane Creatures/Civilized Humanoids (base price ~15,000G) - no limit, buyable once the party has 10+ partner points (these rings only affect one category of creatures as listed above but are combined here for the sake of space)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             * Rings of Bane: Freaks of Nature/Monstrous Humanoids/Outsiders/Undead/Wilderness Creatures (base price ~8000G) - no limit (these rings only affect one category of creatures as listed above but are combined here for the sake of space)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             * Ring of Critical Impact (base price ~12,000G each) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             * Ring of Critical Threat (base price ~12,000G each) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             * Ring of Desperate Advantage (base price ~2000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             * Ring of Earth Control - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             * Ring of Danger Sense - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             * Ring of Duplication - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             * Ring of Holiness - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             * Ring of Improved Health (base price ~4000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             * Ring of Infravision - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             * Ring of Local Sluggishness (base price ~10,000G) x2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             * Ring of Local Vulnerability (base price ~16,000G) x2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             * Ring of Protection +1 - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             * Ring of Protection +2 - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             * Ring of Regeneration - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             * Ring of Resistance - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             * Ring of the Warrior Thief (base price ~30,000G) - x1, requires 9+ partner points to buy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             * Wise Ring (base price ~8000G) - no limit
Rings (Start of Shadows of Amn Campaign)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Ring of Freedom of Movement (base price ~20,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Ring of Reckless Action (base price ~20,000G) - x1
Rings (Finished Carlisle’s Metal Perfection Quest)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   * Reaching Ring - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   * Ring of Force Field - no limit
Scrolls (Initial)
NOTE: This shop sells scrolls and only buys scrolls.
Arcane Scrolls
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Scroll of Armor - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Scroll of Blur - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Scroll of Break Enchantment - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * [If arcane IWD spells from IWDification, SCS, or Trials of the Luremaster are installed] Scroll of Cat’s Grace - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Scroll of Clairvoyance - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Scroll of Cloudkill - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Scroll of Cone of Cold - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Scroll of Conjure Lesser Elemental (Air, Earth, Fire) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * [If arcane IWD spells from IWDification, SCS, or Trials of the Luremaster are installed] Scroll of Conjure Lesser Water Elemental - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Scroll of Conjure Elemental (Air, Earth, Fire) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * [If arcane IWD spells from IWDification, SCS, or Trials of the Luremaster are installed] Scroll of Conjure Water Elemental - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * Scroll of Contingency - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * Scroll of Control Undead - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * [If EEex and OlvynSpells installed (powerful spells are also installed)] Scroll of Create Pit - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * [If arcane IWD spells from IWDification, SCS, or Trials of the Luremaster are installed] Scroll of Decastave - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * Scroll of Detect Illusion - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * Scroll of Detect Invisibility - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * [If EEex and OlvynSpells installed] Scroll of Detect Magic - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * [If OlvynSpells is installed] Scroll of Dimension Door - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * [If OlvynSpells installed] Scroll of Dimensional Chest - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * Scroll of Dispel Magic - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * [If OlvynSpells installed] Scroll of Displacement - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * [If arcane IWD spells from IWDification, SCS, or Trials of the Luremaster are installed] Scroll of Emotion: Courage - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * [If arcane IWD spells from IWDification, SCS, or Trials of the Luremaster are installed] Scroll of Emotion: Hope - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * [If EEex and OlvynSpells installed] Scroll of Extend Vision - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * [If OlvynSpells installed] Scroll of Empower Familiar - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * [If arcane IWD spells from IWDification, SCS, or Trials of the Luremaster are installed] Scroll of Expeditious Retreat - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * [If EEex and OlvynSpells installed] Scroll of Familiar Spell - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * [If EEex and OlvynSpells installed] Scroll of Far Cast - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * Scroll of Farsight - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * Scroll of Find Familiar - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * Scroll of Fire Shield - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * [If EEex and OlvynSpells installed] Scroll of Fly - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * [If EEex and OlvynSpells installed] Scroll of Forcecage - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * Scroll of Freedom - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * [If OlvynSpells installed] Scroll of Freeze Inanimates - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * Scroll of Ghost Armor - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * [If OlvynSpells installed] Scroll of Gedlee’s Electric Barrier - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * [If EEex and OlvynSpells installed] Scroll of Ghostform - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * [If EEex and OlvynSpells installed] Scroll of Ghostwalk - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * [If EEex and OlvynSpells installed] Scroll of Globe of Invisibility - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * Scroll of Globe of Invulnerability - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * Scroll of Haste - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * Scroll of Identify - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * Scroll of Improved Invisibility - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * Scroll of Invisibility - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * [If EEex and OlvynSpells installed] Scroll of Jump - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * [If SoD to BG2EE Item Upgrade is installed] Scroll of Ko’Dezza’s Slime Golem - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * [If OlvynSpells installed] Scroll of Legend Lore - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * [If EEex and OlvynSpells installed] Scroll of Linked Portals - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * Scroll of Luck - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * Scroll of Mass Invisibility - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * Scroll of Minor Globe of Invulnerability - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * Scroll of Minor Sequencer - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * Scroll of Mirror Image - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * [If EEex and OlvynSpells installed] Scroll of Omnipresence - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * Scroll of Oracle - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * Scroll of Polymorph Self - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * Scroll of Protection from Evil - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * Scroll of Protection from Missiles - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * Scroll of Protection from Normal Weapons - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * Scroll of Protection from Petrification - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * [If EEex and OlvynSpells installed] Scroll of Recall Party - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * Scroll of Reflected Image - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * Scroll of Resist Fear - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * Scroll of Shield - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * Scroll of Slow - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * Scroll of Spell Shield - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * Scroll of Spell Sequencer - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * Scroll of Spell Trigger - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * Scroll of Spirit Armor - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * Scroll of Stoneskin x15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * Scroll of Stone to Flesh - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * Scroll of Strength - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * [If EEex and OlvynSpells installed] Scroll of Teleport Circle - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * [If EEex and OlvynSpells installed] Scroll of Teleport Step - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * Scroll of True Seeing - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * Scroll of Vocalize - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * [If EEex and OlvynSpells (including powerful spells) installed] Scroll of Wall of Force - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * Scroll of Wraithform - no limit
Divine Scrolls
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Scroll of Champion’s Strength - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Scroll of Chaotic Commands - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Scroll of Cure Critical Wounds - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Scroll of Cure Serious Wounds - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Scroll of Defensive Harmony - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Scroll of Free Action - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Scroll of Lesser Restoration - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Scroll of Greater Restoration - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Scroll of Neutralize Poison - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Scroll of Protection from Evil, 10’ Radius - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Scroll of Raise Dead - no limit
Green Scrolls
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               * Scroll of Protection from Acid/Cold/Electricity/Fire - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               * Scroll of Protection from Protection from Magic x1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               * Scroll of Protection from Petrification/Poison
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               * Scroll of Protection from Undead x2
Cursed Scrolls
NOTE: These scrolls start identified.  They’re mostly roleplaying options.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Cursed Scroll of Ailment (base price ~300G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Cursed Scroll of Clumsiness (base price ~300G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Cursed Scroll of Foolishness (base price ~300G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Cursed Scroll of Petrification (base price ~300G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Cursed Scroll of Stupidity (base price ~300G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Cursed Scroll of Summon Monster (base price ~300G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Cursed Scroll of Ugliness (base price ~300G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Cursed Scroll of Weakness (base price ~300G) - no limit
Scrolls (Finished Carlisle’s Metal Perfection quest)
NOTE: This shop sells scrolls and only buys scrolls.
Arcane Scrolls
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     * Scroll of Absolute Immunity x1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     * Scroll of Wish x1
Green Scrolls
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Scroll of Protection from Magic x1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Scroll of Protection from Undead x2
Shields (Initial)
NOTE: This shop sells shields and only buys shields.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           * Agile Buckler +3 (base price ~5000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           * Buckler of the Fist [SoD] - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           * Bucky’s Buckler - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           * Mithral Buckler +3 (base price ~5000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           * Steadfast Buckler +2 - no limit
Medium Shields
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Corvyr’s Blessing - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Dragon Scale Shield (base price 7500G) - x1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Medium Shield +2 - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Redshield - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Rhino Beetle Shield [SoD] - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Shield of Devotion - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Shield of Egons [SoD] - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Waukeen’s Defender - no limit
Heavy Shields & Large Shields
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 * Bitch Queen’s Envoy (base price ~3000G) - no limit;  Should this also prevent water weirds and the Elemental Prince of Water (Olhydra) from attacking the wearer?  I assume so.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 * Fortress Shield +3 - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 * Great Shield +3 (base price ~25,000G) - no limit, requires 6+ partner points to buy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 * Graceful Shield +3 (base price ~6000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 * Gorm’s Arm +3 x1 - requires 7+ partner points to buy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 * Large Shield +1, +4 vs Missiles (base price ~5,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 * Large Shield of Strength (base price ~15,000G) - no limit, requires 4+ partner points to buy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 * Mystery of the Dead - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 * Nym’s Rhino Beetle Shield (base price ~10,000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 * Pellan’s Shield +2 - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 * Shield of the Faithful +3 (base price ~7000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 * Shield of the Revenant - no limit
Shields (Start of Shadows of Amn)
NOTE: This shop sells shields and only buys shields.
Medium Shields
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Saving Grace - no limit
Heavy & Large Shields
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Bloodied Guardian (base price 7,000G) [SoD] - no limit
Shields (Finished Carlisle’s Metal Perfection quest)
NOTE: This shop sells shields and only buys shields.
Medium Shields
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Kazrah’s Shield x1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Saving Grace - no limit
Weapon Coatings (Initial)
NOTE: These items are all consumables.
Weapon Coatings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       * Weapon Coating of Alchemical Acid (base price ~750G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       * Weapon Coating of Alchemical Fire (base price ~500G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       * Weapon Coating of Alchemical Frost (base price ~500G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       * Weapon Coating of Alchemical Spark (base price ~500G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       * Weapon Coating of Bottled Bane (base price ~600G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       * Weapon Coating of Greater Bottled Bane (base price ~100G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       * Weapon Coating of Dispelling Dust (base price ~500G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       * Weapon Coating of Paraelemental Acid (base price ~1000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       * Weapon Coating of Greater Paraelemental Acid (base price ~1600G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       * Weapon Coating of Elemental Fire (base price ~750G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       * Weapon Coating of Greater Elemental Fire (base price ~1100G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       * Weapon Coating of Elemental Frost x10 (base price ~750G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       * Weapon Coating of Greater Elemental Frost (base price ~1100G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       * Weapon Coating of Elemental Spark x10 (base price ~750G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       * Weapon Coating of Greater Elemental Spark (base price ~1100G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       * Weapon Coating of Eye Gouge (base price ~900G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       * Weapon Coating of Essence of Misfortune (base price ~500G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       * Weapon Coating of Liquid Metalline (base price ~100G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       * Weapon Coating of Panicking Powder (base price ~200G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       * Weapon Coating of Resistance Reducer (base price ~750G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       * Weapon Coating of Silencer Powder (base price ~300G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       * Weapon Coating of Slow Sauce (base price ~200G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       * Weapon Coating of Stun Sauce (base price ~750G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       * Weapon Coating of Vampiric Vitality (base price ~1000G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       * Weapon Coating of Weapon Essence (base price ~100G) - no limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       * Weapon Coating of Greater Weapon Essence (base price ~400G) - no limit
ALL: GOLEM MAKING IN PORTABLE HOLE
-This assumes Golem Construction is installed and the party has enough resources to make a golem using this mod’s method.
-Unlike some locations in Golem Construction, there are no additional requirements to make golems in the Portable Hole Tavern.  It’s effectively a House Cannith workshop with access to all the relevant materials.
Coding Method as Quoted by the Golem Construction Author
[Determining if an area allows for golem creation is] controlled by script variables which are checked when the construction process is triggered. Each supported area sets their own global variable.  Currently there are
- Global("A7!ColdhearthWorkshop","GLOBAL",1): Coldhearth Dungeon (SoD)
- Global("A7!KanaglymWorkshop","GLOBAL",1): Ruins of Kanaglym (SoD)
- Global("A7!SundriesPermission","GLOBAL",1): [Sorcerous Sundries Second Floor (SoD)]
- Global("A7!SphereWorkshop","GLOBAL",1): Planar Sphere
- Global("A7!JermienWorkshop","GLOBAL",1): Jermien's home in Imnesville
- Global("A7!PlaneWorkshop","GLOBAL",1): Pocket Plane
- Global("A7!WKWorkshop","GLOBAL",1): Watcher's Keep, 2nd level
- and several locations in IWD.
Clerics can also use the temples in Athkatla if they have accepted them as their stronghold:
- Global("A7!TempleWorkshopHelm","GLOBAL",1): Temple of Helm
- Global("A7!TempleWorkshopLathander","GLOBAL",1): Temple of Lathander
- Global("A7!TempleWorkshopTalos","GLOBAL",1): Temple of Talos
The whole golem creation process is handled through a helper creature (A7!SMDLG.CRE). It runs a script (A7!SMDLG.BCS) that checks for the right conditions (current area, etc.), initializes a few variables and triggers a dialog (A7!SMDLG.DLG) with the party member.
The first dialog state checks the previously set variables, sets some variables on its own and executes a short cutscene script that moves the party to the right location on the map and triggers the dialog again. Afterwards a standard procedure is executed that is the same for all locations.
To add a new location to the list you should set a global variable that can be checked by the helper creature whether you are allowed to build golems in that place. That's optional though if there are no conditions involved to enable golem creation in that place.
Then you have to insert a new script block to A7!SMDLG.BCS that checks for your area (and variable) and sets up a few variables and starts the dialog. This block must be inserted somewhere after the first block and before the last three blocks in the script.
Then you have to add a new transition to A7!SMDLG.DLG, state 0, somewhere after the first transition and before the last four transitions, that checks the previously set variable and executes a specific cutscene. And finally create the custom cutscene for moving the party to the right position (you can use one of the existing cutscenes as template and adapt the coordinates accordingly).
-=SIDE QUESTS=-
ALL: CARLISLE’S METAL PERFECTION
This quest is primarily a BG2 quest since, normally, crafting a Perfect Mithral Golem requires a level 30 caster!  (Alternatively, a lesser golem can be upgraded in rank to Perfect via hundreds of kills.)  A Perfect Adamantine Golem normally requires a level 33 caster to make!  Sure, a Cleric could do this, but I want this quest to be available to -all- single-classed casters.
This is a simple quest that mostly happens in the background.  These Perfect Golem Manuals are available for purchase at the Inn Bot initially and elsewhere in the world.
The full text for getting this quest is part of Carlisle’s dialog tree in the Portable Hole Tavern.
ALL: CARLISLE’S METAL PERFECTION JOURNAL ENTRIES
Phase 1: The party talked with Carlisle about building a perfect golem for Carlisle’s promotion
JOURNAL:  “Carlisle from the Portable Hole Tavern, a Human craftsman - an Artificer from the plane of Eberron - asked me to build him and donate to him a Perfect Adamantine Golem or a Perfect Mithral Golem.  With this done, he is confident he will increase in rank in his organization of House Cannith.
I should expect this task to be expensive, but Carlisle has assured me he will make it worth my while if I go through with it.  Carlisle reminded me that either will do equally, but maybe the more expensive golem has some hidden benefit.
Perhaps the Inn Bot in the Portable Hole Tavern has something that will help me with this task.”
Phase 2a: The party has a Perfect Adamantine Golem
JOURNAL:  “Carlisle from the Portable Hole Tavern, a Human craftsman - an Artificer from the plane of Eberron - asked me to build him and donate to him a Perfect Adamantine Golem or a Perfect Mithral Golem.  With this done, he is confident he will increase in rank in his organization of House Cannith.
I have in my possession a Perfect Adamantine Golem!  ‘Alleluia’ I think I heard the Candlekeep chanters say.
Carlisle is likely waiting for me in the Portable Hole for me to donate this golem to him.  He didn’t seem in a hurry to be anywhere else.”
Phase 2b: The party has a Perfect Mithral Golem
JOURNAL:  “Carlisle from the Portable Hole Tavern, a Human craftsman - an Artificer from the plane of Eberron - asked me to build him and donate to him a Perfect Adamantine Golem or a Perfect Mithral Golem.  With this done, he is confident he will increase in rank in his organization of House Cannith.
I have in my possession a Perfect Mithral Golem!  ‘Alleluia’ I think I heard the Candlekeep chanters say.
Carlisle is likely waiting for me in the Portable Hole for me to donate this golem to him.  He didn’t seem in a hurry to be anywhere else.”
Phase 2c: The party has a Perfect Adamantine Golem AND a Perfect Mithral Golem
JOURNAL:  “Carlisle from the Portable Hole Tavern, a Human craftsman - an Artificer from the plane of Eberron - asked me to build him and donate to him a Perfect Adamantine Golem or a Perfect Mithral Golem.  With this done, he is confident he will increase in rank in his organization of House Cannith.
I have in my possession a Perfect Adamantine Golem -and- a Perfect Mithral Golem!  Now Carlisle should be -extra- impressed!  ‘Alleluia’ I think I heard the Candlekeep chanters say.
Carlisle is likely waiting for me in the Portable Hole for me to donate this golem to him.  He didn’t seem in a hurry to be anywhere else.”
Phase 3a: The party donated a Perfect Adamantine Golem
JOURNAL:  “Carlisle from the Portable Hole Tavern, a Human craftsman - an Artificer from the plane of Eberron - accepted my donation of a Perfect Adamantine Golem.  That thing was expensive.  This had better be worth it!
Carlisle returned home to House Cannith for a while to handle business there.  I’m eager for him to return!”
Phase 3b: The party donated a Perfect Mithral Golem
JOURNAL:  “Carlisle from the Portable Hole Tavern, a Human craftsman - an Artificer from the plane of Eberron - accepted my donation of a Perfect Mithral Golem.  That thing was expensive.  This had better be worth it!
Carlisle returned home to House Cannith for a while to handle business there.  I’m eager for him to return!”
Phase 3c: The party donated a Perfect Adamantine Golem AND a Perfect Mithral Golem
JOURNAL:  “Carlisle from the Portable Hole Tavern, a Human craftsman - an Artificer from the plane of Eberron - accepted my donation of a Perfect Adamantine Golem -and- a Perfect Mithral Golem.  Those things were expensive.  This had better be worth it!
Carlisle returned home to House Cannith for a while to handle business there.  I’m eager for him to return!”
Phase 4a: The party talked to Carlisle about his promotion after he returned and after the party donated a Perfect Adamantine Golem
JOURNAL:  “Carlisle from the Portable Hole Tavern, a Human craftsman - an Artificer from the plane of Eberron - accepted my donation of a Perfect Adamantine Golem.
Carlisle has returned, overjoyed at his new promotion!  He has given me a token of his appreciation.”
Phase 4b: The party talked to Carlisle about his promotion after he returned and after the party donated a Perfect Mithral Golem
JOURNAL:  “Carlisle from the Portable Hole Tavern, a Human craftsman - an Artificer from the plane of Eberron - accepted my donation of a Perfect Mithral Golem.
Carlisle has returned, overjoyed at his new promotion!  He has given me a token of his appreciation.”
Phase 4c: The party talked to Carlisle about his promotion after he returned and after the party donated a Perfect Adamantine Golem AND a Perfect Mithral Golem
JOURNAL:  “Carlisle from the Portable Hole Tavern, a Human craftsman - an Artificer from the plane of Eberron - accepted my donation of a Perfect Adamantine Golem -and- a Perfect Mithral Golem.
Carlisle has returned, overjoyed at his new promotion!  He has given me a token of his appreciation.”
ALL: TOME OF UNTOLD LEGENDS
This quest has two main phases.  Phase 1 involves collecting chapters of the Tome of Untold Legends from around the world.  Phase 2 involves warping to a small icy region (possibly Durlag’s Cold Elemental Challenge - map BG0507) with Galphanore, a ghostly, blurry Undead Beholder (Undead Hive Mother stats with permanent undispellable blur).  There Galphanore explains the situation, lets the party choose one weapon to use to fight him and the incarnation of his past lives, and gives him a peaceful rest and the opportunity to add chapters to this tome in the future.
Once the party has all 8 distinct chapters, they can talk to an appropriate NPC and be warped to the appropriate location.
In Galphanore’s Lair (new mod-added location), units can only leave if no foes are in range and combat is over.  Attempting to exit the map with any foes in range displays the message, “The light ahead turns into a solid wall, blocking your escape.  A voice comes you you telepathically and says, ‘You asked for this!  Finish the fight!’”  Thus, once the fight begins, winning the fight is the only expected way to leave.
By default, traps are in Galphanore’s Lair near where the enemies spawn, each of which requires a 200+ total Disarm Trap result to disarm.  These traps only affect the party and its minions (summons, simulacra, etc.)  These traps are also purposely placed to avoid being activated when the party warps in.  Each trap is worth 5000 EXP if disarmed.
-Dispel Magic
-Horrid Wilting
-Mordenkainen’s Sword
-Stinking Cloud
EET (BG1 Part): Tethtoril (Candlekeep), Volo (Belching Dragon Tavern in Nashkel)
BG2 or EET: Sister Garlena (Watcher’s Keep), Volo - outside of Saradush, Spellhold, and the Underdark.
How to Get Chapters of the Tome of Untold Legends
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Chapter 1: Friendly Arm Innkeeper & Vendor
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Chapter 2: Nashkel Carnival Magic Items Tent Vendor
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Chapter 3: Firebeard Elvenhair’s body/pockets in Beregost.  Pick the right dialog option to ask him about it.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Chapter 4: Beregost Temple
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Chapter 5: High Hedge Estate - Thalantyr’s Vendor Stock
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Chapter 6: Erdane, the vendor outside Durlag’s Tower
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Chapter 7: Volo’s body/pockets in Nashkel.  Pick the right dialog option to ask him about it.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Chapter 8: Ulgoth’s Beard’s Innkeeper & Vendor
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             * All Chapters: Sister Garlena - Vendor atop Watcher’s Keep
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             * All Chapters: Small drop chance in random loot, about 0.5% per page.
Galphanore in his lair when party arrives (first visit)
Note that dialog from Galphanore to the party starts immediately upon entering the map.  Galphanore starts non-hostile.
        Also note that Galphanore’s dialog tree is the same on subsequent visits.  Only the greeting dialog changes.
GALPHANORE: <The Beholder looks up at you from the book it’s telekinetically holding and writing in, causes it to vanish, and starts speaking in a curious, friendly tone.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GALPHANORE: Oh, hi.  Welcome.  You aren’t my first visitor, but you’re the first one this year.  I’m Galphanore, the author of the book you read that sent you here, the Tome of Untold Legends.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GALPHANORE: Please pardon my appearance.  I didn’t have a choice of forms when I was reincarnated.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GALPHANORE: What questions do you have?  Visitors usually have them.
Galphanore in his lair when party arrives (subsequent visits)
Note that dialog from Galphanore to the party starts immediately upon entering the map.  Galphanore starts non-hostile.
        Also note that Galphanore’s dialog tree is the same on subsequent visits.  Only the greeting dialog changes.
GALPHANORE: <Galphanore looks up at you from the book it’s telekinetically holding and writing in, causes it to vanish, and starts speaking in a curious, friendly tone.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GALPHANORE: Welcome back!  Are you here for a friendly chat, because you got lost, or because you want to talk more about my Tome of Untold Legends?
[If Volo is in the party] Volo, what do you know about what just happened?
VOLO: I apologize, but I know about as much as you!
A friendly Beholder?  That’s new!
GALPHANORE: <Galphanore laughs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GALPHANORE: New to you, perhaps, but not to me.  I’ve been in this form for decades now.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GALPHANORE: But, yes, I’d rather be friendly.
Who are you?
GALPHANORE: I am Galphanore.  I have been cursed - or perhaps blessed - with automatic reincarnation upon my death.  I don’t know how this started, and it can’t be dispelled.  I’ve tried.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GALPHANORE: I’ve lived many lives as many beings across the planes.  My strongest memories have been of my current life - of course - as well as the 8 lives mentioned in the Tome of Untold Legends.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GALPHANORE: My earliest memory was of being a short, fat male Human who owned an airship - a spelljammer more specifically.  He died when the ship crashed.  I’m not sure about the rest.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GALPHANORE: But in this form, I’ve had one of my best lives!  I was recruited to help guard a Lich on the plane of Eberron named the Black Abbot.  He was a priest who was also really into books - mostly necromantic ones - and we got along well.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GALPHANORE: The Abbot also recruited some guards.  There was an Artificer who made Constructs, a fellow priest of the Abbot’s religion, and a potent blue-colored Fire Elemental.  Our job was to guard him long enough to finish writing his necromantic masterpiece, the Litany of the Dead.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GALPHANORE: The Abbot was fond of collecting treasures in exchange for not attacking the nearby civilizations.  Some adventurers came by on occasion and we stopped them.  Again and again and again.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GALPHANORE: After the Abbot was slain but with his phylactery intact, the rest of us were effectively released from service.  I don’t know what was in the Litany of the Dead and I knew enough not to ask questions of a caster who could weave firestorms the size of a large building!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GALPHANORE: I did, however, copy some weapon schematics the Abbot and his crew were working on.  I heavily encoded them in a mostly forgotten language and magically warded them against their deciphering to prevent people from getting hurt.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Trinden is in the party.>
TRINDEN: How remarkably clever!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GALPHANORE: I also wanted to prevent others from tracing my work back to the Abbot.
<If Baeloth is in the party.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: What a wonderful way to obscure your actions!
Why are you incorporeal?
GALPHANORE: I once worked for the Lich-Priest known as the Black Abbot.  As part of my service to him, and because he was -obsessed- with death, he turned me incorporeal to increase my usefulness.
Where are we?
GALPHANORE: We’re in my BEHOLDER LAIR!  Mwahahaha!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GALPHANORE: Ahem.  More seriously, we’re in my home in a far corner of the world.  I call this place home because it’s been quiet and away from people I might scare off.  It’s also been conducive to my writing.
Why did you write the Tome of Untold Legends?
GALPHANORE: First, after being reincarnated, I kept remembering certain parts of certain lives.  It didn’t matter how many times I reincarnated:  The same memories kept coming back to me like a flood.  I just -had- to record them - again and again and again!  That’s why I wrote many copies of the book, and so many that I’ve lost count!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GALPHANORE: Second, one of my former employers and associates, a Lich-Priest from Eberron known as the Black Abbot, released me from service but never actually paid for guarding him.  I’ve been bitter about that, and so I smuggled some of the schematics for his favorite treasures and hid them in magically-warded ciphers so those daring enough can get them.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GALPHANORE: Third, of all the incarnations I’ve had, I don’t know if I’ve ever had an honorable death.  I wrote this book so that powerful, worthy adventurers would come and we would fight a difficult but honorable fight and I could receive an honorable death.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GALPHANORE: I suspect that an honorable death would break the cycle of reincarnation, or at least make me feel better and help me move on from this cycle.
Why is it called the Tome of Untold Legends?
GALPHANORE: I liked the name.  I admit that my former employer, the Lich-Priest Black Abbot, came up with the name.  It has an aura of mystery and intrigue to it.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GALPHANORE: And since my many incarnations were seemingly obscure compared to many famous creatures, like Elminster of Faerun, my story is a series of legends mostly untold.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GALPHANORE: I admit I tried to find meaning in the title besides something I liked.  <He shrugs.>
Who else has come here in search of answers?
GALPHANORE: Maybe... a dozen people of various races.  Most of them were casters or scholars of some sort.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GALPHANORE: Once they learned what was involved in my challenge, they all left.  I don’t blame them.
What should I do with this copy of the Tome of Untold Legends?
GALPHANORE: If you’re ready, give it to me, I’ll verify it’s a full copy - since some people have tried to cheat the system - and then you can get one of the weapons I have left from my former employer who didn’t pay me for my help.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GALPHANORE: If you have more than one full copy of the Tome of Untold Legends, I’ll give you a separate item for each full tome you have.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GALPHANORE: For each full tome you bring me, I remove one of the additional creatures you would need to defeat when we fight.  Think of it as a thank you gesture for those fans -obsessed- with the Tome of Untold Legends.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GALPHANORE: Then we fight!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GALPHANORE: Even if you were to bring me a hundred copies of the Tome, you’re still fighting me at least.
I’m ready to fight!
GALPHANORE: Before we begin, I’ll let you choose your weaponry.  If you pick anything, you’re locked into fighting me now.  Are you absolutely sure you want to fight?
No fighting yet!  I need time to prepare!
GALPHANORE: <Galphanore nods.>
Why give me this stuff -before- we fight?
GALPHANORE: If I’m dead, I can’t properly reward you!  It’s only fair that I compensate you for your help while I still can!
I’m ready!  Let’s get on with this!
GALPHANORE: <Galphanore smiles an excited smile!>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GALPHANORE: Don’t worry, friends.  All I seek from you is an honorable death.  You’re helping me to get that.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GALPHANORE: Pick your weaponry to use.  Remember, it’s one weapon per full copy of the Tome of Untold Legends, to a maximum of 8.  Each threat is associated with one of these choices, which was also related to one of my former deaths.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GALPHANORE: You can only get these items BEFORE the fight!  Even if you beat the threat associated with these items, you’re too late!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GALPHANORE: All choices are FINAL!  No take backs!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GALPHANORE: How many full copies of the Tome of Untold Legends do you have?  I see <NUMBER>.
Bastard Sword - Son of the Sun, once owned by a Paladin.  Its flaming nature is also especially useful against Evil-aligned creatures.  Choosing this removes from the fight an Elemental Prince of Fire.
GALPHANORE: Will you accept the Son of the Sun?
GALPHANORE: Pick again!
Gimme that sword!
GALPHANORE: Deal.
<The party receives Son of the Sun and the quest EXP for beating this creature (30,000?).>
Katana - The Stand-In, once owned by a machine-loving Rogue.  This katana made me an incredibly fast and deadly assassin when I wasn’t riding in golems for protection!  Choosing this removes from the fight an Adamantine Golem.
GALPHANORE: Will you accept The Stand-In?
GALPHANORE: Pick again!
Gimme that katana!
GALPHANORE: Deal.
<The party receives The Stand-In and the quest EXP for beating this creature (25,000).>
Longbow - Hunters’ Spat, once owned by a Ranger.  I suspect it made me impatient, thereby making me go faster, and it had an infinite amount of self-made ammunition that was acidic, too.  Choosing this removes from the fight a Planetar.
GALPHANORE: Will you accept the Lovers’ Spat?
GALPHANORE: Pick again!
Gimme that bow!
GALPHANORE: Deal.
<The party receives Lovers’ Spat and the quest EXP for beating this creature (20,000).>
Mace - Coronation, once owned by a Cleric.  This weapon does extra magic damage on hit and provides the wielder with significant spell resistance.  Choosing this removes from the fight 2 Devil Shades.
GALPHANORE: Will you accept my Coronation?
GALPHANORE: Pick again!
Coronation accepted.
GALPHANORE: Deal.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GALPHANORE: I -knew- I should’ve made a crown to go with that mace!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GALPHANORE: <Galphanore shakes his head and sighs.>  Nevermind.
<The party receives Coronation and the quest EXP for beating these creature (18,000 total).>
Scimitar - Astral Curve, once owned by a Druid.  (Of course!)  I suspect it made me impatient, thereby making me go faster, it gave me continual Freedom of Movement, and prevented me from being disintegrated.  Choosing this removes from the fight a Greater Wolfwere.
GALPHANORE: Will you accept the Astral Curve?
GALPHANORE: Pick again!
Gimme that scimitar!
GALPHANORE: Deal.
<The party receives Astral Curve and the quest EXP for beating this creature (15,000).>
Scimitar - Astral Curve, once owned by a Druid.  (Of course!)  I suspect it made me impatient, thereby making me go faster, it gave me continual Freedom of Movement, and prevented me from being disintegrated.  Choosing this removes from the fight a Greater Wolfwere.
GALPHANORE: Will you accept the Astral Curve?
GALPHANORE: Pick again!
Gimme that scimitar!
GALPHANORE: Deal.
<The party receives Astral Curve and the quest EXP for beating this creature (15,000).>
Spear - The Ebony Spear, once owned by a fearsome, athletic warrior and magically crossbred mutt of a Half-Orc.  It made me the fastest thing I’ve ever found, incredibly strong, and blessed me with continual Freedom of Movement.  Choosing this removes from the fight an Elite Fire Giant.
GALPHANORE: Will you accept The Ebony Spear?
GALPHANORE: Pick again!
Gimme that spear!
GALPHANORE: Deal.
<The party receives The Ebony Spear and the quest EXP for beating this creature (26,000).>
Throwing Axe - Headless Vengeance, once owned by an Illithid’s thrall.  It provided immunity to mind-affecting effects and was especially adept at killing Illithids and mind controlled creatures.  Choosing this removes from the fight an Alhoon - that is, an Illithid-turned-Lich.
GALPHANORE: Will you accept the Headless Vengeance?
GALPHANORE: Pick again!
Gimme that throwing axe!
GALPHANORE: Deal.
<The party receives Headless Vengeance and the quest EXP for beating this creature (10,000).>
Throwing Dagger - Skiver, once owned by a Sorcerer.  It increased spellcasting speed, automatically doubled the duration of spells they cast, and increased the wielder’s luck.  Choosing this removes from the fight the traps set up around the area.  Of all the deaths I faced, this one was -absolutely stupid- and the one that bothered me the most!
GALPHANORE: Will you accept Skiver?
Traps?  What traps?
GALPHANORE: Only the deadliest, nastiest traps I could find.  None that summon other creatures, though.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GALPHANORE: I totally understand if you pick Skiver just to get rid of the traps.
GALPHANORE: Pick again!
Gimme that knife!
GALPHANORE: Deal.
<The party receives Skiver and the quest EXP for overcoming these traps (25,000 total).>
Two-Handed Sword - Zerthimon’s Guidance, once owned by a Githzerai warrior.  It provided immunity to mind-affecting effects and was especially adept at killing Illithids and mind controlled creatures.  Choosing this removes from the fight a Githyanki Gish - that is, a psionic Fighter/Mage.
GALPHANORE: Will you accept Zerthimon’s Guidance?  The sword, not the teaching directly.
GALPHANORE: Pick again!
Gimme that two-hander!
GALPHANORE: Deal.
<The party receives Zerthimon’s Guidance and the quest EXP for beating this creature (10,000).>
No more rewards for me, Galphanore.  Let the fight begin!
GALPHANORE: Are you -absolutely certain?-  I won’t go easy on you even if you choose nothing!
My mistake!  Let me reconsider.
GALPHANORE: <Galphanore smiles.>  I thought of that, too!
I meant what I said.  I like to live... dangerously!
GALPHANORE: So be it!  <End dialog.  BEGIN FIGHT!>
The time for parlay is over.  Let the battle begin!
GALPHANORE: So be it!  <End dialog.  BEGIN FIGHT!>
[If the party has taken all 8 of the weapons] I have all your weapons and removed your additional threats.  Now -this- is a legend worth telling!
GALPHANORE: <Galphanore grins.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GALPHANORE: Today, we go down in history as ending this cycle of foolish deaths!  Today is a good day to die!
<If Volo is in the party.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: I already have your eulogy prepared!
<If Hull is in the party.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Beauty is in the DIE of the beholder!
<If Baeloth is in the party.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Let the battle begin! (from AoN: Baeloth PC sound set.)
<End dialog.  START FIGHT!>
Let’s not fight yet.
GALPHANORE: Alright.
How do I get home?
GALPHANORE: If you keep walking far enough toward the light, you’ll eventually go back to where you came from.  I can also warp you back now if you’d like.
Don’t send me back yet.
GALPHANORE: <Galphanore nods.>
I’m ready to leave.
GALPHANORE: Please come back and visit.  I do enjoy a good conversation!  <The party is warped back to their previous location.  End Dialog.>
Sister Garlena - Add this dialog tree
[If the party has at least 1 chapter of the Tome of Untold Legends BUT not all 8] What can you tell me about this mostly indecipherable text I found?
GARLENA: <Sister Garlena examines the text.  Time seems to quietly stand still.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GARLENA: What have we here?  <She scratches her chin as she reads over the text.>  I’m familiar with these ancient signs and sigils.  Some of them were used in the construction of Watcher’s Keep.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GARLENA: There’s some sort of magic that prevents common spells like Comprehend Languages or Tongues from its deciphering.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GARLENA: The Tome of Untold Legends...  Have I heard this name before?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GARLENA: I’ll need time to study this, but it seems like this is someone’s biography and includes their cause of death.  It’s a piece of a puzzle, but I don’t think it’s a murder mystery.  I’ll need all pieces of this Tome before I can do anything else with it.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Edwin is in the party.>
EDWIN: A puzzle, you say?  It seems some Wizard’s ego needs stroking by proving he has the bigger brain!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: A puzzle, huh?  I think you’re -way- more patient than me to be working on that stuff!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Imoen is in the party>
IMOEN: A puzzle?  Careful that the dogs don’t eat the pieces that fall on the floor!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Sarevok is in the party.>
SAREVOK: Pieces of -what- puzzle, -old man?-  Is this some sort of artifact weapon?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Trinden is in the party.>
TRINDEN: I now wonder if attempting to solve this puzzle is an optimal use of our time.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Volo is in the party.>
VOLO: A puzzle?  How delightful!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Baeloth is in the party.>
BAELOTH: This is no fun.  Start killing things already! (from AoN: Baeloth PC sound set.)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GARLENA: Skimming this, I see parts of an index for 8 chapters.  Perhaps this tome’s author or scribe made many copies.
What does the Helmite church have on file?
GARLENA: I have - or had - at least some pieces of this tome.  Most people simply have not asked about it.
Why keep parts of the tome?
GARLENA: It’s the same reason many merchants keep things handy - to sell to interested parties.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GARLENA: While we could donate this text to Candlekeep, we too have needs, and our relations with Candlekeep are in good enough standing otherwise.
Where else do you advise I look for parts of the Tome of Untold Legends?
GARLENA: Candlekeep may have something.  Perhaps book collectors have pieces of this puzzle.
<End of dialog branch>
[If the party has all 8 chapters of the Tome of Untold Legends AND this is the first time talking with Garlena about all 8 chapters] I have all 8 chapters to a book I can’t read.  What do you make of it?
GARLENA: <Sister Garlena examines the chapters, her gaze narrowing on the pages.  Time seems to stand still.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GARLENA: Well, <CHARNAME>, all the chapters seem to have two parts.  One part is a brief biography - maybe an autobiography - of a person, including how they died.  The second is a piece of a puzzle, a set of instructions to warp someone to an obscure location.  The trip is one-way and I’ve never been there.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GARLENA: I am familiar with some of the horrors of Watcher’s Keep, and I imagine this is an elaborate trap of some sort, but the reward may be worth it.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-
GARLENA: If you’re ready, tell me and I’ll send you.
Don’t warp me yet.
GARLENA: <Sister Garlena shrugs.>  I too would be hesitant to risk my life for this.
Send me there!
GARLENA: <Sister Garlena sighs.>  Since you insist.
<END DIALOG.  WARP PARTY TO GALPHANORE’S LAIR.>
Wait!  You aren’t joining me?
GARLENA: <Sister Garlena shakes her head.>  Maintaining the seal on Watcher’s Keep matters -far- more to the well-being of the world than chasing this lead.  Sorry, <CHARNAME>.
What about providing a written translation of this tome for me?
GARLENA: <Sister Garlena sighs.>  Something tells me you don’t really care exactly what this old text says.  Even if you do, you already know all the important parts.
[If the party has all 8 chapters of the Tome of Untold Legends AND the party has already talked to Sister Garlena about having all 8 chapters] About that Tome of Untold Legends.  Are you ready to warp me?
GARLENA: If you’re ready, tell me and I’ll send you.
Don’t warp me yet.
GARLENA: <Sister Garlena shrugs.>  I too would be hesitant to risk my life for this.
Send me there!
GARLENA: <Sister Garlena sighs.>  Since you insist.
<END DIALOG.  WARP PARTY TO GALPHANORE’S LAIR.>
Wait!  You aren’t joining me?
GARLENA: <Sister Garlena shakes her head.>  Maintaining the seal on Watcher’s Keep matters -far- more to the well-being of the world than chasing this lead.  Sorry, <CHARNAME>.
What about providing a written translation of this tome for me?
GARLENA: <Sister Garlena sighs.>  Something tells me you don’t really care exactly what this old text says.  Even if you do, you already know all the important parts.
[If the party has beaten Galphanore and the Tome of Untold Legends quest AND Sister Garlena was the one to warp them] I’m back, safe and sound enough to talk to you.  The Tome of Untold Legends took me to a place where an incorporeal beholder named Galphanore fought me and wanted to die an honorable death.
GARLENA: <Sister Garlena’s eyebrow raises when she hears what you said.>  See?  I told you following that lead was dangerous!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GARLENA: Regardless, you gave the being what he asked for, an honorable death.  Helm would agree with your decision to grant this request.  Thank you for your service.
Tethtoril - Add this dialog tree
[If the party has at least 1 chapter of the Tome of Untold Legends BUT not all 8] What can you tell me about this mostly indecipherable text I found?
TETHTORIL: <Tethtoril examines the text.  Time seems to quietly stand still.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TETHTORIL: This... text is in an ancient language.  It bears strong magic, preventing simple spells like Comprehend Languages or Tongues from readily deciphering it.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TETHTORIL: The text clearly calls itself a Tome of Untold Legends - but I assume that much you knew.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TETHTORIL: I was recently translating a book from this ancient script into something more modern.  Glancing over this text, it briefly mentions someone’s biography and how they died.  Part of the text seems to be a piece of a puzzle:  We need all chapters of this Tome of Untold Legends to make sense of this puzzle.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Edwin is in the party.>
EDWIN: A puzzle, you say?  It seems some Wizard’s ego needs stroking by proving he has the bigger brain!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: A puzzle, huh?  Tethtoril, I think you’re -way- more patient than me to be working on that stuff!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Imoen is in the party>
IMOEN: A puzzle?  Careful that the dogs don’t eat the pieces that fall on the floor!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Sarevok is in the party.>
SAREVOK: Pieces of -what- puzzle, -old man?-  Is this some sort of artifact weapon?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Trinden is in the party.>
TRINDEN: I now wonder if attempting to solve this puzzle is an optimal use of our time.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Volo is in the party.>
VOLO: A puzzle?  How delightful!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Baeloth is in the party.>
BAELOTH: This is no fun.  Start killing things already! (from AoN: Baeloth PC sound set.)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TETHTORIL: Ahem.  From what I can tell, there are 8 distinct chapters to this tome, and I will need them all to ensure this puzzle is properly solved.  There may be more than one copy of each chapter somewhere in existence.
What does Candlekeep have on file?
TETHTORIL: I can check again, but I found nothing in Candlekeep’s archives.  This is an obscure text, I assure you.
Where do you advise I look?
TETHTORIL: Perhaps some ancient ruin or book seller has more of this tome.
<End of dialog branch>
[If the party has all 8 chapters of the Tome of Untold Legends AND this is the first time talking with Tethtoril about all 8 chapters] I have all 8 chapters to a book I can’t read.  What do you make of it?
TETHTORIL: <Tethtoril examines the chapters.  Time seems to stand still.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TETHTORIL: Part of each chapter gives a brief biography of a person, including how they died.  The 8 chapters together when deciphered provide instructions to warp someone to a specific destination, a place unfamiliar to me.  This trip is one-way.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TETHTORIL: You would be risking your life by having me send you there, but you have already risked your life more than I know.  Are you ready to go?
Don’t warp me yet.
TETHTORIL: <Tethtoril nods.>  Tell me when you are ready.
Send me there!
TETHTORIL: <Tethtoril smiles.>  Very well.  I appreciate your bravery.
<END DIALOG.  WARP PARTY TO GALPHANORE’S LAIR.>
Wait!  You aren’t joining me?
TETHTORIL: <Tethtoril nods.>  I’m sorry, but I’m needed here.  I am a scholar and not much of a warrior.
What about providing a written translation of this tome for me?
TETHTORIL: <Tethtoril sighs.>  Doing so would take far longer than any of us would desire, and I have other duties.  Besides, you already know the most important points.
[If the party has all 8 chapters of the Tome of Untold Legends AND the party has already talked to Tethtoril about having all 8 chapters] About that Tome of Untold Legends.  Are you ready to warp me?
TETHTORIL: <Tethtoril nods.>  Are you ready to go?
Don’t warp me yet.
TETHTORIL: <Tethtoril nods.>  Tell me when you are ready.
Send me there!
TETHTORIL: <Tethtoril smiles.>  Very well.  I appreciate your bravery.
<END DIALOG.  WARP PARTY TO GALPHANORE’S LAIR.>
Wait!  You aren’t joining me?
TETHTORIL: <Tethtoril nods.>  I’m sorry, but I’m needed here.  I am a scholar and not much of a warrior.
What about providing a written translation of this tome for me?
TETHTORIL: <Tethtoril sighs.>  Doing so would take far longer than any of us would desire, and I have other duties.  Besides, you already know the most important points.
[If the party has beaten Galphanore and the Tome of Untold Legends quest AND Tethtoril was the one to warp them] I’m back, safe and sound enough to talk to you.  The Tome of Untold Legends took me to a place where an incorporeal beholder named Galphanore fought me and wanted to die an honorable death.
TETHTORIL: <Tethtoril’s eyes go wide when he hears the word, “Beholder.”>  A -Beholder?- you say?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TETHTORIL: Was it beautiful?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TETHTORIL: <Tethtoril blinks then smiles and laughs at you.>
I never took you for a jokester, Tethtoril.
TETHTORIL: Winthrop said I should smile more.  It will help me live longer.
Beauty in the eye of the beholder?  Which one?
TETHTORIL: <Tethtoril smiles and winks at you.>  All of them, I suppose.
What do you -really- think about Beholders?
TETHTORIL: <Tethtoril winces.>  They are an easy way to stop casters from casting while destroying -teams- of valiant fighters!  Elminster said they are among his most -reviled- opponents!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TETHTORIL: Let us simply say I am -very glad- I have never had to fight them!
Volo - Add this dialog tree
[If the party has at least 1 chapter of the Tome of Untold Legends BUT not all 8] What can you tell me about this mostly indecipherable text I found?
VOLO: <Volo examines the text while fiddling with his mustache and wrinkling his nose.  Time seems to quietly stand still.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Oh?  What’s this?  An ancient text of questionable content?  
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: <Volo’s face contorts to a variety of expressions as reads over the text.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: This, this, this language!  It’s -beyond- ancient!  It’s also magically warded to prevent easy translation.  Good thing I’m an expert linguist, you know!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: I shall keep you in suspense -no longer!-  Behold, the Tome of Untold Legends!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: I can tell from your reaction that you are only -mildly- impressed.  Let me explain.  Ahem.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: This tome, if I am reading it right, contains a being’s biography and includes their cause of death.  It is but a -piece- of a puzzle.  I would need every chapter to be able to make any further progress with it!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Edwin is in the party.>
EDWIN: A puzzle, you say?  It seems some Wizard’s ego needs stroking by proving he has the bigger brain!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: A puzzle, huh?  I think you’re -way- more patient than me to be working on that stuff!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Imoen is in the party>
IMOEN: A puzzle?  Careful that the dogs don’t eat the pieces that fall on the floor!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Sarevok is in the party.>
SAREVOK: Pieces of -what- puzzle, -old man?-  Is this some sort of artifact weapon?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Trinden is in the party.>
TRINDEN: I now wonder if attempting to solve this puzzle is an optimal use of our time.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Volo is in the party.>
VOLO: A puzzle?  How delightful!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Baeloth is in the party.>
BAELOTH: This is no fun.  Start killing things already! (from AoN: Baeloth PC sound set.)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: The good news is I only see 8 chapters in the index.  By all accounts, it’s a -small- book.  The author probably made it his life’s work to write out many copies of this tome.  I’ve done that with various copies of my books.  I can still feel that in my arm!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: I also recall seeing various chapters in my travels, but I can already tell this is a collector’s item, and collectors tend not to hold onto these things for long.
[If Volo has at least 1 chapter on him] Do you have any parts of this tome that you could spare?
VOLO: I have this.  <The party receives Tome of Untold Legends Chapter 4 unless Volo has other parts.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Elminster gave it to me once as a gift for publishing one of my books.
Why keep parts of the tome?
VOLO: Curiosity, my good <PRO_SIRMADAM>!  I am an author, and reading others’ works has been a handy way to be inspired!
You know Elminster?!
VOLO: I thought you knew!  He has been a fan ever since the publishing of my early works!
[If Volo has no chapters on him] Do you have any parts of this tome that you could spare?
VOLO: Hmm.  I -thought- I had a chapter on me in this left pocket!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Since I don’t, that’s all the more reason to scour the world for it and be inspired for more works!
Where else do you advise I look for parts of the Tome of Untold Legends?
VOLO: Candlekeep was my first thought, but they generally don’t like people -taking- books from them.  Book collectors, antique shops, tombs, fellow authors, pawn shops...  The list goes on
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: The planes are only so big, you know.  There are only so many places you can look!
<End of dialog branch>
[If the party has all 8 chapters of the Tome of Untold Legends AND this is the first time talking with Volo about all 8 chapters] I have all 8 chapters to a book I can’t read.  What do you make of it?
VOLO: <Volo examines the text while fiddling with his mustache and wrinkling his nose.  Time seems to quietly stand still.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Oh?  What’s this?  An ancient text of questionable content?  
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: <Volo’s face contorts to a variety of expressions as reads over the text.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: This, this, this language!  It’s -beyond- ancient!  It’s also magically warded to prevent easy translation.  Good thing I’m an expert linguist, you know!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: I shall keep you in suspense -no longer!-  Behold, the Tome of Untold Legends!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: I can tell from your reaction that you are only -mildly- impressed.  Let me explain.  Ahem.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: With the entirety of this tome on hand I can tell you with -great certainty- that this book is a combination of biographies of obscure people or characters and it provides instructions on how to warp someone one-way to a faraway place.  Perhaps this locale is a private demiplane.  It sounds exciting and dangerous.
VOLO: Do you want me to try to warp you to this faraway place now?
Don’t warp me yet.
VOLO: <Volo shrugs.>  Ah, very well.  The excitement from this tale will need to wait.
[If Volo is in Saradush] Send me there!
VOLO: <Volo sighs.>  I just remembered:  Saradush has a city-wide dimensional lock on it preventing teleportation!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: If you would be so kind as to get me out of here, then we handle this.
[If Volo isn’t in Saradush] Send me there!
VOLO: Hold your breath, cross your toes, and close your eyes because here we go!
<END DIALOG.  WARP PARTY TO GALPHANORE’S LAIR.>
[If Volo isn’t in the party] Will you join me for this most excellent adventure?
VOLO: Well, I -could-.  If you invite me properly, I might come along.
[If Volo is in the party] Will you join me for this most excellent adventure?
VOLO: Of course, my friend!  History and adventure are best experienced firsthand!
What about providing a written translation of this tome for me?
VOLO: <Volo shakes his head and sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: I’m sorry, <CHARNAME>.  I don’t think this volume would sell very well.  I’ve been on enough book tours to realize what -excites- the people and, well, this is not it.
[If the party has all 8 chapters of the Tome of Untold Legends AND this is NOT the first time talking with Volo about all 8 chapters] I have all 8 chapters to a book I can’t read.  What do you make of it?
VOLO: Do you want me to try to warp you to this faraway place now?
Don’t warp me yet.
VOLO: <Volo shrugs.>  Ah, very well.  The excitement from this tale will need to wait.
[If Volo is in Saradush] Send me there!
VOLO: <Volo sighs.>  I just remembered:  Saradush has a city-wide dimensional lock on it preventing teleportation!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: If you would be so kind as to get me out of here, then we handle this.
[If Volo is in the Mana Forge or the Crucible areas, the last maps of ToB] Send me there!
VOLO: <Volo sighs.>  History is in the making!  The Tome of Untold Legends will need to wait!
[If the party is in combat] Send me there!
VOLO: Not now!  Can’t you see we’re in combat?
[If Volo isn’t in one of these places AND not in combat] Send me there!
VOLO: Hold your breath, cross your toes, and close your eyes because here we go!
<END DIALOG.  WARP PARTY TO GALPHANORE’S LAIR.>
[If Volo isn’t in the party] Will you join me for this most excellent adventure?
VOLO: Well, I -could-.  If you invite me properly, I might come along.
[If Volo is in the party] Will you join me for this most excellent adventure?
VOLO: Of course, my friend!  History and adventure are best experienced firsthand!
What about providing a written translation of this tome for me?
VOLO: <Volo shakes his head and sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: I’m sorry, <CHARNAME>.  I don’t think this volume would sell very well.  I’ve been on enough book tours to realize what -excites- the people and, well, this is not it.
[If the party has beaten Galphanore and the Tome of Untold Legends quest AND Volo was the one to warp them AND Volo was in the party when they beat Galphanore] We’re back from that beholder’s lair!  At least we’re able to walk!
VOLO: Why, yes, my friend!  I must add this to my notes!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: <Volo quickly scribbles something.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: I’m so glad I could help you get there - and back again!
What should we do next?
VOLO: We should enjoy our victory of course!  Adventure awaits us so soon after this as well, I assume!
[If the party has beaten Galphanore and the Tome of Untold Legends quest AND Volo was the one to warp them AND Volo wasn’t in the party] I’m back, safe and sound enough to talk to you.  The Tome of Untold Legends took me to a place where an incorporeal beholder named Galphanore fought me and wanted to die an honorable death.
VOLO: A -beholder- you say?  Tell me more!  -This- is the exciting narrative that was missing from the dry biographies of this ancient text!
I was warped to a small, cold place in a faraway corner of the world.  The Beholder was ghostly, but it was also strikingly friendly-
VOLO: A -friendly- Beholder?  Well, -that’s- news!  Are you sure it didn’t charm you with its eyes?
It was friendly toward me before the fight.  I assume so.
VOLO: Friendly beholder.  Did not charm you.  Got it!
Anyway, it remembered its many past lives and painful, humiliating deaths which were recorded in the Tome of Untold Legends.  It wanted an honorable duel and death so it could move onto its next life and hopefully a better one.
VOLO: This Beholder wanted a newer, better life in a different incarnation.  Got it!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Did anything else exciting happen?
It traded me the complete Tome of Untold Legends which contained a fragment of its essence for a weapon - maybe even an artifact - for me to use against it.
VOLO: A Beholder with an artifact weapon collection?  I’ve heard of Beholder cults with significant resources, but yes, yes, go on.
After a difficult fight with me as victorious, I’m here, talking again with you.  Thanks.
VOLO: A -resounding- triumph, I assume!  How delightful!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: My hat’s off to your courage, my friend - linguistically speaking, of course!  I look forward to talking with you about your future exciting adventures!
<END DIALOG.>
ALL: TOME OF UNTOLD LEGENDS JOURNAL ENTRIES
Phase 1: The party finds at least 1 chapter of the Tome of Untold Legends
JOURNAL:  “I’ve found an old text.  Most of it is indecipherable, but the top is clearly labeled as a chapter of the Tome of Untold Legends.
There -must- be some scholar or sage who could read this and tell me more!  Maybe one of the librarians of Candlekeep would help.”
Phase 2a: The party talked with Sister Garlena about an incomplete Tome
JOURNAL:  “Sister Garlena, a Helmite Priestess of Watcher’s Keep, knew something about the Tome of Untold Legends.  She said it contained part of a biography as well as a piece of a puzzle.  She needs all 8 chapters of the Tome of Untold Legends to tell me more.”
Phase 2b: The party talked with Tethtoril about an incomplete Tome
JOURNAL:  “Tethtoril, a Scribe of Candlekeep, knew something about the Tome of Untold Legends.  He said it contained part of a biography as well as a piece of a puzzle.  He needs all 8 chapters of the Tome of Untold Legends to tell me more.”
Phase 2c: The party talked with Volo about an incomplete Tome
JOURNAL:  “Volo, a wandering Bard, knew something about the Tome of Untold Legends.  He said it contained part of a biography as well as a piece of a puzzle.  He needs all 8 chapters of the Tome of Untold Legends to tell me more.”
Phase 3: The party has all 8 chapters but hasn’t talked with Sister Garlena/Tethtoril/Volo
JOURNAL:  “I now have all 8 chapters of this Tome of Untold Legends.  When I’m ready, I should talk with someone who can read this text and help me solve this puzzle.”
Phase 4: The party has all 8 chapters AND has talked with Sister Garlena/Tethtoril/Volo about it
JOURNAL:  “This Tome of Untold Legends?  It has instructions on how to warp me to some distant place.  It’s a one-way trip and I’m not sure what I’ll find when I’m there.  I’d better be ready.  This is probably a trap.”
Phase 5: The party was warped to Galphanore’s Lair
JOURNAL:  “I met the author of the Tome of Untold Legends - Galphanore, an incorporeal Beholder.  He seemed remarkably friendly and patient with me, unlike most of his kind.  He just wants an honorable death because he’s tired of all the pain and humiliation of his previous lives.”
Phase 6: The party killed Galphanore and company and left Galphanore’s Lair
JOURNAL:  “It is done.  Galphanore received the honorable death he wanted.  Perhaps the person who warped me to Galphanore’s Lair would want to hear the tale.”
Phase 7a: The party killed Galphanore and company and left Galphanore’s Lair AND talked to Sister Garlena that warped them there
JOURNAL:  “I told Sister Garlena about what happened with Galphanore and the Tome of Untold Legends.  She seemed vaguely pleased that Galphanore received the honorable death he wanted.”
Phase 7b: The party killed Galphanore and company and left Galphanore’s Lair AND talked to Tethtoril that warped them there
JOURNAL:  “I told Tethtoril about what happened with Galphanore and the Tome of Untold Legends.  He seemed surprised I would so eagerly take on a Beholder, but was also happier than normal.  I think he enjoyed our conversation.”
Phase 7c: The party killed Galphanore and company and left Galphanore’s Lair AND talked to Volo that warped them there
JOURNAL:  “I told Volo about what happened with Galphanore and the Tome of Untold Legends.  He seemed utterly enthralled by my story and wanted to know everything!  It was like he was writing his next play based on the Tome of Untold Legends!”
BG1: HULL’S BIRTHDAY QUEST
Hull’s Birthday (Interjection)
(If Hull is in the party after 365 in-game days have elapsed.  This event only triggers once.)
HULL: Kid, I think my birthday’s today.  I could be off by a few days, but I got a good feeling!
Happy birthday!
HULL: Thanks!  What’d you get me?
Does your continued physical existence as a non-enslaved man count?
HULL: It’s hard to celebrate bein’ alive kid when I got this life for free!
What do you want?
HULL: I could use a drink, a hug, and maybe a better sword.  Let’s take some time off and celebrate with liquid victory, kid!
Besides me, who do you expect to be at your party?
HULL: If we can get along, I’m open to -lotsa- company, kid!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Let’s avoid fights.  No Ulraunt.  No mean people or monsters trying to harm me.  That sorta thing.
How can you tell it’s your birthday?
HULL: Some animals know when it’s matin’ season.  I just got a feelin’, kid, when it’s around my birthday.
What sort of feeling?
HULL: It’s a feeling of, “I should be celebratin’ my birthday about now!  Make someone else pay for it!”
What do you expect as a gift?
HULL: I’d like to take a break and get cozy at a high class inn somewhere.  Let’s get some drinks, maybe go dancin’, and just enjoy the time.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I like swords.  And armor.  And better gear.  Not just drinks.
[If the player hasn’t chosen at least 1 dialog option above] Let’s head out so we can celebrate your birthday!
HULL: Not yet, kid.  You should at least wish me a happy birthday!  Even Gorion did that!  <END DIALOG.>
[If the player chose at least 1 dialog option above] Let’s head out so we can celebrate your birthday!
HULL: It’s a deal, kid!  And -you’re- buyin’ the drinks!  I’m not picky right now from where!  <END DIALOG.>
Hull’s Birthday (Celebration)
(If Hull’s birthday interjection happened already, Hull gets a drink at a bar, and this wouldn’t trigger a Hull on Tap event, display this.)
HULL: I propose a toast - to life, to progress, and to many more birthdays to come!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Winthrop is in the area.>
WINTHROP: May your birthdays be many and wet, beer farts be few!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Agreed!  And get ready to hustle, Winthrop!  This might be a -long- party!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Carlisle is in the area AND if he’s in the Portable Hole, the party has already talked with him and made him friendly.>
CARLISLE: Of all the places you chose to celebrate a birthday, you did it with me?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: Well, damn, Hull!  I’m honored!  I suppose all of you are the closest thing I have to a family in this place!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: Bots, get ready to PARTY!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
INN BOT: Yes, sir.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
JUKE BOT: WHAT SHALL I PLAY FOR YOU?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CARLISLE: Whatever Hull wants.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Gimme a moment to toast everyone first!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
JUKE BOT: ACKNOWLEDGED.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Voghiln is in the area.>
HULL: Voghiln?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOGHILN: Ach, I need a drink! I MUST FIND A DRINK! (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Bartender, get this man two.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOGHILN: First, a toast to you! (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Sure.  Thanks!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOGHILN: <Voghiln chugs two drinks with rapid speed!> (‘*glug* *glug* *glug* Ahhh... ‘ from here)
(Voghiln gains 2 drinks of intoxication.)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOGHILN: A fine group and a fine beer! Now all I need is a fine woman. (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Don’t look to me to help you with that.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOGHILN: <Voghiln smiles.>  Ja.  We are brothers in arms, not sister and brother!  We’re fine warriors regardless!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thanks.  Maybe for your birthday, we’ll have a drunken sword fighting competition!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOGHILN: Take a swing, take a swig!  I like how you think, mine friend!
<If Korgan is in the area.>
KORGAN: Here’s to ye, ye tall dwarf!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Sure!  Cheers!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KORGAN: Bartender, we’ll need s’more over here!
(Korgan gains 1 drink of intoxication.)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KORGAN: Like m’ mum used ta say…
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KORGAN: If I wished t' sit about all day, I'd do it in a proper pub with an ale in me hand!  (from here)
-NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KORGAN: <Korgan laughs!>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Today’s the day for it!
<If Kaigan is in the area.>
KAIGAN: I need an ale.  (Voiced line from here.)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: That’s the spirit!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KAIGAN: <Kagain belches.>  Sure.  (Voiced line from here.)
(Kagain gains 1 drink of intoxication.)
<If Minsc is in the area.>
MINSC: Ah, it has been too long since Minsc journeyed with such a fine companion! (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thanks, you two!  Just don’t let your hamster get drunk!
(Minsc gains 1 drink of intoxication.)
<If Sir Neh’taniel is in the area.>
NEH’TANIEL: Happy birthday, Hull!  It has been too long since I have been invited to anything that celebrates life.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Being undead does that to a guy.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NEH’TANIEL: Do not expect drinking from me at this time, Hull.  My heart is set on other matters.  I am here to encourage you by my presence.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thanks anyway!  Cheers!
<If Emily is in the area.>
EMILY: Hull, my friend!  Let us celebrate another year of life and success together!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Sure!  Thanks!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And did it hurt?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
EMILY: What?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: When you fell from the heavens?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
EMILY: <Emily rolls her eyes at Hull.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
EMILY: Consider me unamused, Hull.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull laughs!>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I don’t get to celebrate my birthday every day with a beautiful gal like you!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
EMILY: Well, thank you.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: So, how many drinks do you want?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
EMILY: Just one for each of us.  Sobriety is a virtue.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And so is binge drinking on your birthday!  Cheers!
<Hull gains 1 unit of intoxication.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
EMILY: Yes.  Cheers!
<Emily gains 1 unit of intoxication.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Helga is in the area.>
HELGA: Hull!  Happy birthday!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thanks!  How drunk you wanna get?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HELGA: If I’m not buyin’?  I’ll take three.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I see your point and raise you double!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HELGA: Ye sure, Hull?  I’d hate for ya to be eatin’ floor today!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Me too!  I already know it tastes like floor!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HELGA: Make it six.  A dwarf needs her pride in somethin’!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Final answer?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HELGA: Done!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Bartender!  Six drinks for each of us!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: May we never regret this!  Cheers!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HELGA: Cheers to ye too, Hull!
<Hull and Helga each gain 6 units of intoxication.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Kale is in the area.>
KALE: Did someone mention free drinks?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: What?  No ‘Happy birthday?’
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KALE: Free drinks -make- it a happy birthday!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Is it your birthday today, too, Kale?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KALE: It can be if I’m not buying drinks.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Then happy birthday to us!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KALE: I’ll take two drinks.  What about you?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Two?  Me too!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KALE: Bartender!  Four drinks this way!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And happy birthday to me!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KALE: Happy birthday, Hull!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And happy birthday, Kale!  Whenever yours is!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KALE: To long life, health, and great success wherever we are!  Cheers!
<Kale gains 2 units of intoxication.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Fully agreed, Kale!  Cheers!
<Hull gains 2 units of intoxication.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Recorder is in the area.>
RECORDER: Hull, thanks for the drinks!  I gave Gustav a taste.  I think he likes it.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Good! We gotta build up his constitution so he can drink beer like a man!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
RECORDER: <Recorder smiles and laughs!>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Good!  Someone -finally- laughs at that!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull smiles and winks at Recorder and Gustav.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
RECORDER: How certain are you that today is your birthday, Hull?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: It’s close enough, whatever that means to you.  Besides, I think we -all- needed a reason to celebrate!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
RECORDER: Fair enough, Hull.  Still, the question stands.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Do you wanna do more thinkin’ or drinkin’ now?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
RECORDER: A little bit of each.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I -thought- you’d say something like that!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: To answer your question about the date, considering today’s date according to the calendar of the realms...
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Carry the two...
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Nope!  Still don’t know how close I am to my real birthday and I don’t wanna care!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
RECORDER: <Recorder smiles and sighs and she shakes her head.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Want another drink?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
RECORDER: Sure!  I’ll save some for Gustav.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Bartender!  Three drinks!  We gotta get this ferret drunk!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
RECORDER: <Recorder blushes!>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You don’t build up your drinkin’ muscle unless you start early and do it often!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
RECORDER: Thanks.  I think.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: To life, to love, to health, to happiness, and drunk ferrets!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
RECORDER: May we never forget our past, our loved ones, nor our reason for living!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Like getting ferrets drunk!  Cheers!
<Hull gains 1 unit of intoxication.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
RECORDER: Cheers!  Enjoy, Gustav!
<Gustav and Recorder each gain 1 unit of intoxication.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Vienxay is in the area.>
VIENXAY: What’s this I hear about a birthday?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: It’s mine!  I didn’t think you wanted the attention, being all sneaky and stuff!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VIENXAY: In battle, I don’t.  Here, I do.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Well, girl, take a seat, have a drink, and see if you can stand after that.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VIENXAY: I’m an elf, but I’m not some frail flower that dries up and blows away in the wind, Hull.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I know.  You could kick my ass.  And I could kick yours.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VIENXAY: <Vienxay smiles.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: So, how many drinks do you want to prove you aren’t a frail flower?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VIENXAY: Two.  One for now and another for later.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I’m proud you thought that far ahead!  I’m still doin’ a whirlwind tour of all the guests around here wishin’ me a happy birthday!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VIENXAY: Bartender, three drinks over here.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Makin’ sure I can still stand after all this meetin’ and greetin’?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VIENXAY: That’s the point.  No sense in you passing out early and spoiling the party for the rest of us.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Selfish, but insightful.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VIENXAY: Wisdom is wisdom.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Spoken like a true elf.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VIENXAY: <Vienxay raises her drink.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull also raises his drink.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VIENXAY: May your kills be many and swift!  May you be granted mercy and deliver none!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull laughs!>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Maybe you don’t believe in giving mercy, but I might.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VIENXAY: Have it your way, Hull.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: To success, victory, and good luck out there for all of us!  Cheers!
<Hull gains 1 unit of intoxication.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VIENXAY: Agreed.
<Vienxay gains 1 unit of intoxication.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VIENXAY: Besides, I plan to light someone on fire with this spare drink if things get too rowdy.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull’s eyes go wide and he nearly spits out his drink!>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Dusk is in the area.>
DUSK: Well, my brother in battle, happy birthday!  Here is to many more with many more victorious true tales to tell!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And here’s to you too, Dusk, my warrior brother!  May Cormyr sing your praises!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DUSK: Well said, my friend!
(Dusk gains 1 drink of intoxication.)
<If Finch is in the area.>
FINCH: Another year older means you should know more, Hull!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I do, like how much I need to drink to get drunk or pass out!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
FINCH: <Finch smiles and laughs!>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Are you gonna drink up?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
FINCH: I know better than to say no right now.  Thanks!
(Finch gains 1 drink of intoxication.)
<If Saradas is in the area.>
SARADAS: Hull, it is good to see you smile.  It’s like you’re in your native environment.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thanks, Saradas.  I know you meant well by that, but that kinda hurt.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SARADAS: Yes, Hull.  I know about your drunken past, but remember this:  You stayed drunk in Candlekeep for so long because you were happy, or at least happy enough not to want to change.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I felt that in the heart, man!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SARADAS: I mention that to remind you, Hull, that you are more than your past.  You can remember it and visit it on occasion, but it’s a place you can never dwell again.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: This is one of those times when you -really- sound like Gorion while looking a lot like him, too!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SARADAS: <Saradas sighs and smiles.>  I’ll leave you to your memories, and I’ll drink beside you as a friend.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull smiles and winks.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SARADAS: One drink for me please, bartender.
(Saradas gains 1 drink of intoxication.)
<If Imoen is in the area.>
IMOEN: You sure are a ray of sunshine, aren't you? (from Imoen)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You are too, girl.  You are too.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: C’mon, girl!  Don’t give me that look!  You want a drink, don’tcha?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: I really want to! (from Imoen)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Bartender!  A drink for the fine girl over here!
(Imoen gains 1 drink of intoxication.)
<If Afaaq is in the area.>
HULL: Afaaq, my genie companion, I thought you’d be drinking more!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AFAAQ: <Afaaq smiles.>  Just because genies are known for their wine does not mean I wish to lose my senses to it.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AFAAQ: But for your sake, I can conjure up a drink.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: How about more than one?  I’m pretty sure certain someones could go for more free drinks!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AFAAQ: I would prefer not to help anyone get drunk, even on this occasion.  We still live in dangerous times.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AFAAQ: Still, for your sake, I shall take a drink.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Cheers!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AFAAQ: <Afaaq raises his wine-filled glass.>  To long life and prosperity to us all, and to those who wish us well!
(Afaaq gets 1 drink of intoxication.)
<If Grey the Dog is in the area.>
HULL: Aw!  Is Grey happy to celebrate my birthday?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GREY: <Grey sits up, looks toward Hull, and wags his tail happily!>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GREY: Woof! (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull pours some of his drink in a bowl then puts it on the ground for Grey.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Now you can taste what a -real man- drinks!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GREY: <Grey sips the drink.>
(Grey gets 1 drink of intoxication.)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GREY: <Grey howls!> (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: That’s all I can spare ya.  Don’t want ya pukin’ it up!
<If Wilson the Bear is in the area.>
HULL: WIlson!  Time to treat you to a drink!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GREY: <Grey sits down, looks toward Hull, and wags his tail happily!>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
WILSON: <Wilson growls happily.> (‘Grr’ from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull pours a drink in a bowl then puts it on the ground for Wilson.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Wilson, my friend, it’s time to drink beer like a man!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
WILSON: <Wilson sniffs the liquid then starts lapping it up.>
(WILSON gets 1 drink of intoxication.)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
WILSON: <Wilson makes some noise amidst drinking.> (‘Select Rare2’ from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Good job, Wilson!  Now we just gotta get ya to pee standin’ up so you can be like a real man!
<If Drizzt is in the area.>
DRIZZT: Hull, my companion, you seemed prone to celebrate in the worst of times and in the best of times.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Well, Drizzt my friend and hero, if times are bad, I don’t wanna feel ‘em.  If times are good, I -wanna- feel ‘em!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: I understand that sentiment, Hull.  Even heroes grow weary or have moments worthy of rest and reflection.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Agreed, Drizzt!  Whatcha thinkin’ about?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: After all I’ve done after leaving the Underdark and becoming a heretic to them, where am I most needed?  Who is best for me to help?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: I cannot fully answer that question now.  The best I can do is to take things bit by bit and moment by moment.  There are many opportunities that will come at the right time.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I’m glad you think we’re worth being around!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: Agreed, Hull.  I am glad to be of assistance for the moment.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You want a drink?  It’s hardly a celebration just watching me drink.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: Very well.  I shall have a drink.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: One drink for the legendary hero Drizzt Do’Urden coming right up!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: <Drizzt gets a drink and quickly finishes it.>
(Drizzt gains 1 drink of intoxication.)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: At least that tasted nothing like the drinks of Menzoberranzan; else, I may have recalled unpleasant memories.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I’m glad you like it.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: To many more years of heroism, Hull.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Agreed!
<If Baeloth is in the area.>
BAELOTH: <Baeloth holds his nose and shuts his eyes and he quickly downs a drink.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: <A moment passes, he takes a deep breath, and smiles, looking remarkably refreshed!>
(Baeloth gains 1 drink of intoxication.)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Oh, I suppose we’ll need a replacement. (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Bartender, another drink for that dapper drow over there!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Good to see ya likin’ the celebration!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: A sound suggestion. (from here)
(Baeloth gains 1 more drink of intoxication.)
<If Volo is in the area.>
VOLO: Another year of not being eaten by gnolls, torn apart by giants, stuck in an Imprisonment spell, having at least most of my physical, spiritual, and mental faculties, and being on good terms with the powers that be?  I’ll -take- it!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: And a drink, please.  Bartender!  The revered Volo requests a drink!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Here, here friend!  Add this place to the newest version of whatever guide you’re writing!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Oh, perhaps I will.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: And good fortune to us all!
(Volo gets 1 drink of intoxication.)
<If Branwen is in the area.>
BRANWEN: You are a strong warrior. I respect that. (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You are too, Branwen.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull smiles and winks at Branwen.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BRANWEN: <Branwen smiles and winks back.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Bartender!  A drink for the blonde warrior gal over here!
(Branwen gets 1 drink of intoxication.)
<If Anomen is in the area.>
ANOMEN: Duty can wait a day, I see.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Yeah!  I’m glad -you- get it!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ANOMEN: Unlike -some- people, I’m not here to lecture about your drinking habits and now is not the time.  It would be like chastising a couple on their wedding day.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Agreed.  Want a drink?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ANOMEN: <Anomen shrugs.>  Sure.  Bartender!  I would like a drink!
(Anomen gets 1 drink of intoxication.)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thanks, Anomen.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ANOMEN: I’m sorry Hull the best present I can offer you right now is my presence.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Don’t be sorry.  Drinking alone got old -ages- ago!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ANOMEN: So, what are your plans after this revelry ends?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Gimme a couple days to think about it.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ANOMEN: <Anomen smiles.>  What -are- you thinking about now, Hull?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: How good it feels to go back to my old life for a while of drinking until I’m satisfied.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ANOMEN: Does that mean until you’re on the floor, Hull?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Maybe.  There’s just something thrilling in the moment of seeing how far I can go when I try.  
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And not being concerned about the consequences.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Not a motto to live by every day, but there are times for it.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ANOMEN: Yes, my friend, there are.  With work to do every day, taking the right time off to celebrate who we are and how we got here is refreshing to the soul.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: It’s good because it’s rare.  Do it every day and it’s boring or disgusting.  Odd how that works.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ANOMEN: Well, that’s life’s way of telling you to do something else!  Change is inevitable.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I was gonna say ‘Tell me about it,’ but that’s the wrong phrase.  I’ve been there and done that.  I’ll probably do it again.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ANOMEN: Thank you for your friendship, Hull.  I’m glad we can have a moment to act like men without the chains of duty bothering us nor our regrets haunting us.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: How poetically spoken.  I agree.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ANOMEN: May we have more of these days ahead of us - at the right time, of course!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Of course, my friend.  Of course.
<If Nalia is in the area.>
NALIA: <Nalia looks around, obviously seeming uncomfortable.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Nalia, what is it?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NALIA: Hull, I’m glad this is just a modest party for you.  I... don’t know if I could handle anything else.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Well, I didn’t ask for a -castle- for my birthday this year!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NALIA: I’m trying to be quiet and let you celebrate your birthday.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NALIA: I’m sorry, Hull.  I’m not sure what to say to avoid ruining the mood.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Better not get drunk then or you’ll start blabbing all sorta things we’ll regret!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NALIA: Thanks, Hull.  It’s... cheaper that way.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You want a drink?  That’s easily arranged.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NALIA: <Nalia smiles.>  Would that make you feel better?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Of -course!-  I’m not here to drink alone, even though I have!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NALIA: Bartender, I’ll take your finest drink.
(Nalia gains 1 drink of intoxication.)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Good!  You’re more comfortable living as the noble you are!  Doesn’t matter who chose your bloodline:  Others still expect nobles to -act- like nobles, and rightfully so!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NALIA: That’s what gets me.  I just... don’t like the bad image other nobles give.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I know.  I know.  Some are royal assholes - but only some.  
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You gotta be comfy with money, girl, or you’re gonna lose to others that -are!-  Maybe even you’d be overthrown or assassinated!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NALIA: Are you -sure- you want this heavy talk for your birthday?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You started it, girl.  You felt guilty for the bad behavior of other nobles, so you tried leaving the lifestyle - but you couldn’t.  You’re a noble by birth and -expected- to stay one.  Embrace your birthright.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NALIA: Thanks, Hull.  I may need time.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Well, I didn’t say you hadda do it -right away!-  What takes a moment to learn can take a -long- time to unlearn!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NALIA: Alright, Hull.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NALIA: Bartender, I would like another of your finest drinks now.
(Nalia gains another drink of intoxication.)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: That’s a good start!  Enjoy!
<If Dorn is in the area.>
DORN: Hrmm. It's about time.  Bring me another flagon of ale.  (from here)
(Dorn gets 1 drink of intoxication.)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I’m glad you’re into this, Dorn.  I didn’t think you were so into this celebrating birthdays thing.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DORN: Yes!  I can see it now.  (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DORN: Even I must rest at times.  (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Well said.  Drink up while we still can.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DORN: <Dorn motions to the bartender for more drinks.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DORN: Give me another!  (From here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DORN: Try to keep up!  (From here)
(Dorn gains another drink of intoxication.)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: No drinking contents today.  I’m here to relax, not put on a show.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DORN: Fine.  (From here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DORN: I will enjoy this.  (From here)
<If Ajantis is in the area.>
AJANTIS: What is this, Hull?  Have you forgotten your responsibilities?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Ajantis, I can think about my ‘responsibilities’ every other day of the year.  All you seem to think about is being strict and killing things you don’t like.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AJANTIS: I think it would be wise for you to improve your conduct while in this party. (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: My point exactly.  If you don’t like it, come back tomorrow when we’re passed out and -evil- has -failed- to overtake the world.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AJANIS: I will not stand by while this party descends into depravity.  (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Ajantis, take a break.  You sound like you need it.
<If Keldorn is in the area.>
KELDORN: Ah, Hull.  It’s a good day to be alive.  I’ll leave you to your revelries, but let’s be ready for the road tomorrow.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I might be.  All this talk about evil and opportunities everywhere!  It’s like it never stops until we say it’s enough for us!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KELDORN: Like with retirement or death.  I understand well, Hull.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Want a drink?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KELDORN: Just one, in honor of you, my friend.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thanks, Keldorn.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Bartender, a drink for the knight in shining armor over here!
(Keldorn gets 1 drink of intoxication.)
<If Anomen is in the area.>
ANOMEN: Duty can wait a day, I see.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Yeah!  I’m glad -you- get it!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ANOMEN: Unlike -some- people, I’m not here to lecture about your drinking habits and now is not the time.  It would be like chastising a couple on their wedding day.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Agreed.  Want a drink?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ANOMEN: <Anomen shrugs.>  Sure.  Bartender!  I would like a drink!
(Anomen gets 1 drink of intoxication.)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thanks, Anomen.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ANOMEN: I’m sorry Hull the best present I can offer you right now is my presence.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Don’t be sorry.  Drinking alone got old -ages- ago!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ANOMEN: So, what are your plans after this revelry ends?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Gimme a couple days to think about it.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ANOMEN: <Anomen smiles.>  What -are- you thinking about now, Hull?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: How good it feels to go back to my old life for a while of drinking until I’m satisfied.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ANOMEN: Does that mean until you’re on the floor, Hull?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Maybe.  There’s just something thrilling in the moment of seeing how far I can go when I try.  
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And not being concerned about the consequences.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Not a motto to live by every day, but there are times for it.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ANOMEN: Yes, my friend, there are.  With work to do every day, taking the right time off to celebrate who we are and how we got here is refreshing to the soul.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: It’s good because it’s rare.  Do it every day and it’s boring or disgusting.  Odd how that works.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ANOMEN: Well, that’s life’s way of telling you to do something else!  Change is inevitable.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I was gonna say ‘Tell me about it,’ but that’s the wrong phrase.  I’ve been there and done that.  I’ll probably do it again.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ANOMEN: Thank you for your friendship, Hull.  I’m glad we can have a moment to act like men without the chains of duty bothering us nor our regrets haunting us.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: How poetically spoken.  I agree.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ANOMEN: May we have more of these days ahead of us - at the right time, of course!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Of course, my friend.  Of course.
<If Corwin is in the area.>
HULL: Captain Corwin, you seem tense!  It’s break time!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CORWIN: I understand.  (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You’re thinking about family, aren’t you?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CORWIN: Rohma needs a mother!  (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Try... thinking about something else.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CORWIN: Give me a moment.  (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CORWIN: <Corwin sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CORWIN: Ah, noise and crowds.  Feels like home.  (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: -That’s- the birthday spirit I expected from you!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Bartender!  A drink for the ranger lady over here!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CORWIN: <Corwin smiles at Hull.>
(Corwin gains 1 drink of intoxication.)
<If Caelar is in the area.>
HULL: Caelar, I see you can take a break sometimes!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CAELAR: Surely the gods of light smile on us.  (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Aren’t you gonna drink?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CAELAR: 'Tis easy to walk astray from the path of righteousness. Watch your steps. (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I’ll take that as a no.
<If Irenicus is in the area.>
HULL: Irenicus, are you just gonna stand there while we drink and celebrate?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IRENICUS: Allow the fool to make his judgment. (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Sour puss!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IRENICUS: Enough!  I haven’t the time for this. (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Whatever.  I wasn’t sure what I was doing letting -him- come to my party!
<If Hubelpot is in the area.>
HUBELPOT: Hull!  A fine idea celebrating your birthday together.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: So, what sorts of plants are in our drinks?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HUBELPOT: <Hubelpot laughs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HUBELPOT: I -sell- veggies, Hull!  I don’t turn ‘em into booze!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You passed the ‘Don’t ruin my birthday with an encyclopedia rambling’ test!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HUBELPOT: Cheers to more years, Hull!
(Hubelpot gains 1 drink of intoxication.)
<If Edwin is in the area.>
HULL: Edwin!  Of all people, I didn’t expect you to be downing these like you wanted to get drunk!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
EDWIN: I'll not keep this pace without a rest soon. (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Apparently you -understand- birthdays.  And that you aren’t buyin’.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
EDWIN: A rare display of intelligence, undoubtedly fleeting.  (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Edwin, today’s no day for a drinking contest!  If you’re trying to win, you win.  Happy now?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
EDWIN: Strange,  I... do not feel so well. (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I warned ya, man.  I didn’t think wizards like you could handle your liquor!  You’re a lightweight!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
EDWIN: You will regret this decision. (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
EDWIN: <Edwin violently vomits on the ground before passing out for 1 hour.>  (Use the ‘Drying’ sound effect from his BG1 sound set here.  Edwin also has +100 units of intoxication.)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You asked for it.
<If Trinden is in the area.>
HULL: Trinden!  Don’t you drink?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: No more than necessary.  Too much intrigue and strife comes from an opportunistic poisoning or mind controlling contamination.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I’m glad I don’t live in your world.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: <Trinden snorts.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: However, for the sake of social graces, I shall partake.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Good!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Bartender!  A drink for this draconic fellow!
(Trinden gains 1 drink of intoxication.)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: So, what did you do for your birthday?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: <Trinden grins confidently.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: I led an expedition of new recruits to our house through a desert on a training mission to obtain some golems my uncle purchased for me as a birthday gift.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: After our second ambush, I volunteered to ride ahead to our destination where I became involved in a plot to forge a trade monopoly with Amarice, the only nation of sentient constructs for the ability for them to reproduce.  The device was my uncle’s -masterpiece.-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: This plot eventually led to a war among the remaining nations who destroyed each other over the ability to retain trading rights with Amarice.  The start of this war was what caused certain members of my house and myself to leave the plane and visit numerous planes for reasons I detailed in my autobiographical summary, “The Metaphysical Revolution.”
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: I trust you can find the correct chapters.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull looks wide-eyed at Trinden!>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Alright, Trinden.  You win.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: It was never intended as a competition, yet I appreciate your sentiment.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: <Trinden smiles confidently at Hull.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Bartender!  Another drink for the draconic overachiever over here!
(Trinden gets 1 drink of intoxication.)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: <Trinden nods at Hull.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: Gracious.
<If Garrick is in the area.>
GARRICK: Happy birthday, Hull!  Let me delight us all with a song!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Sure!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GARRICK: 'Tis a beautiful day in the neighborhood.  (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Lemme stop you there.  It’s a good start, but I was hoping for something... else.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Sorry.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GARRICK: I feel a little unprepared for this job, but I'll try my best. (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GARRICK: <Garrick pauses and thinks a moment.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GARRICK: <Garrick begins to play something instrumentally.>
(Play the instrumental song from here - The Dragonborn Comes.)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Something slow and relaxing.  I needed that.  Thanks.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GARRICK: Thank you so very much for your most gracious compliment. (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GARRICK: If man is known by the company he keeps, I shall be thought of gloriously.  (from here)
[If Hull has finished his knighthood quest] What about your duties as a knight?
HULL: I’m not gonna go on a drunken rampage, kid.  Just... gimme time.
Please don’t get drunk on me, Hull!
HULL: No promises, kid.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: That’s what birthdays are for!
<Pick one.>
I’ll be over here, probably staying sober.
HULL: Your choice, kid.
I might join you for a drink.  Or many.
HULL: Sure thing, kid.  Enjoy!
Hey bartender!  I’ll take a drink!
HULL: That’s all I ask, kid!
(CHARNAME gets 1 drink of intoxication.)
Go ahead and get drunk all you want.  I’ll help you as needed.
HULL: -Finally!-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Hey bartender!  I’ll have another!
Up for a drinking contest?
HULL: No thanks, kid.  I just want a day where I’m -not- trying to prove myself again and again and again.  Everyone needs those!
It’s Hull on Tap, birthday edition!
HULL: You said it, kid!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Even if we’re off by a few days, it’s close enough.  Here’s to my birthday!
Let me join in on this toast!  A drink for me!
HULL: Good on you kid for joining me!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Bartender!  A drink for my friend over here!
(CHARNAME gains 1 drink of intoxication.)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: It’s wonderful to be able to toast to a year of being away from the old life in Candlekeep.  What a journey it’s been!  I think Gorion would be prouda me for risking it all by helping you do what you should do, kid.
Proud of -you?-  What about -me- as his foster child?
HULL: We’re celebratin’ my birthday now, kid.  I’m sure you have an answer to that already.
There’s a lot behind us and a lot ahead of us.
HULL: <Hull starts singing.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Our journey’s been long but patience has made the way clearer.  By luck or our faith what was far has become much nearer.
Thank you, Hull, for being my friend.
HULL: <Hull’s eyes start tearing up.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, of -all- the days you could say that, you’re making my beer saltier!  Thanks!
[If the player has chosen at least 1 dialog option above] Lemme know if you want me, Hull.  I’ll be around.
HULL: I might need some help tomorrow, kid.  We party tonight and sleep off the hangover tomorrow!  <THE PARTY GETS 500 QUEST EXP EACH.  HULL GETS AN EXTRA 500 QUEST EXP.  END DIALOG.>
BG1: HULL’S BIRTHDAY QUEST JOURNAL ENTRIES
Phase 1: It’s been at least 365 days since the game started and Hull is in the party
JOURNAL: “Hull, famous drunkard of Candlekeep, told me it’s about time we celebrate his birthday.  He just has a feeling it’s around this time, even if he’s off by a few days.
He gave me hints about wanting hugs and better gear, but he seems to most want some time off to drink, maybe get drunk, and relax.  He didn’t seem picky about where he went drinking.”
Phase 2: Hull celebrated his birthday with a drink
JOURNAL:  “Hull has started - and maybe also finished - his birthday celebrations by drinking.  Considering he left Candlekeep on a whim to help me, giving him some time off and letting him indulge in a rare pleasure in this dangerous world seems fair.”
BG1: HULL ON TAP (CANDLEKEEP REGION) QUEST
Hull Drank His First Drink from Any of Beregost’s Inns (Burning Wizard, Feldepost, Jovial Juggler, Red Sheaf)
How was the drink, Hull?
HULL: <Hull shrugs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Not bad, but nothin’ special.  Winthrop did it better. <END DIALOG.>
Hull Drank His First Drink from the Friendly Arm Inn
How was the drink, Hull?
HULL: <Hull smiles after eagerly licking the inside of the mug.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: It’s a bit sweeter than I’d like, but Winthrop could learn somethin’ from these Mirrorshades!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BENTLEY MIRRORSHADE: And thank ye, kindly.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You’re welcome! <END DIALOG.>
Hull Drank His First Drink from Nashkel’s Belching Dragon Tavern
How was the drink, Hull?
HULL: <Hull sipped the drink, stared at the drink, and made painful faces at it.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Bitter beer?  People actually -drink- this stuff?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I ordered it so I may as well -try- to finish it.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BARTENDER: And you’d -better- finish it or I’m charging you -double!-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull rolls his eyes at the bartender.> <END DIALOG.>
Hull Drank His First Drink from Ulgoth’s Beard’s Inn
How was the drink, Hull?
HULL: <Hull swished the drink around in his mouth, not impressed.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: It tastes like water.  It’s disgusting!  I’ll have another.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BARTENDER: <The bartender smiles.>  Have another on the house.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thanks.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BARTENDER: My barmaid - gods bless her heart - mixed up the beer and water barrels.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: At least it’s drinkable!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BARTENDER: Last week she accidentally put seawater in the beer.  You got lucky.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thanks.  I think.  <END DIALOG.>
BG1: HULL ON TAP (CANDLEKEEP REGION) JOURNAL ENTRIES
Phase 1: The party recruits Hull for the first time
JOURNAL: “Hull, famous drunkard of Candlekeep, let me know he’d like to try some local drinks from various taverns and places in the Candlekeep region.  The city of Baldur’s Gate can wait for now.
Specifically, he wanted to try drinks from these places to determine if Winthrop could improve his recipe.  I am welcome to drink with him, but that’s optional.
-The Burning Wizard
-Feldepost’s Inn
-Jovial Juggler
-Red Sheaf Inn
FRIENDLY ARM INN
NASHKEL CITY
-Belching Dragon
NASHKEL AREA
-Carnival - if they have a drink tent
ULGOTH’S BEARD
-Ulgoth’s Beard’s Inn”
Phase 2a: Hull drank from the 4 taverns in Beregost (Burning Wizard, Feldepost’s Inn, Jovial Juggler, and Red Sheaf Inn)
JOURNAL: “Hull sampled drinks from all the taverns in Beregost.  
To quote him, ‘Not bad, but nothin’ special.  Winthrop did it better.’”
Phase 2b: Hull drank from the Friendly Arm Inn
JOURNAL: “Hull sampled a drink from the Friendly Arm Inn.  He seemed eager to down every last drop!
To quote him, ‘It’s a bit sweeter than I’d like, but Winthrop could learn somethin’ from these Mirrorshades!’”
Phase 2c: Hull drank from Nashkel’s Belching Dragon Tavern
JOURNAL: “Hull sampled a drink from Nashkel’s Belching Dragon Tavern.  He took his first sip, stared at the drink, and made painful faces at it.
To quote him, ‘Bitter beer?  People actually -drink- this stuff?  <He sighs.>  I ordered it so I may as well -try- to finish it.’”
Phase 2d: Hull drank from the Ulgoth’s Beard Inn
JOURNAL: “Hull sampled a drink from Ulgoth’s Beard’s Inn.  He sipped it, set down the mug, then rolled his eyes.
To quote him, ‘It tastes like water.  It’s disgusting!  I’ll have another.’”
Phase 3: Hull drank from every available bar on the Phase 1 list (Nashkel’s Carnival has no drink tent)
JOURNAL:  “Hull has finished his drinking tour of the Candlekeep region.  He gave me a page with his notes.  I don’t think this would warrant getting me into Candlekeep, or else any hand-written note could warrant entry!”
After Finishing Candlekeep Region Beer Tour
HULL: Alright, kid.  Here are my notes for Hull On Tap for the Candlekeep region.
What should I do with this?
HULL: Keep it handy and add your own notes if you’d like.
Alright.  I might.
HULL: Good, kid.
<PARTY GETS 500 QUEST EXP.  HULL GETS AN EXTRA 500 QUEST EXP.>
BG1: HULL ON TAP (BALDUR’S GATE CITY) QUEST
Hull Drank His First Drink from the Helm and Cloak
How was the drink, Hull?
HULL: <Hull smiles as he raises his glass in a toast.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: It’s a ritzy place with booze that tastes imported.  Not sure from where.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BARTENDER: That’s from Saerloon, a city in Sembia.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: It gets -my- seal of approval!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BARTENDER: Thanks!  It’s so popular we save most of it for locals of the city.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Maybe if I weren’t so busy traveling, I’d move in!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BARTENDER: We get that sentiment a lot.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Good!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull finishes his drink, clearly satisfied.>
<END DIALOG.>
Hull Drank His First Drink from the Three Old Kegs
How was the drink, Hull?
HULL: <Hull gulped a big gulp from his drink.  He looked like he would fall to the floor!>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: It’s old and potent, alright!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NANTRYN BELLOWGLYN: That’s what we like to hear!  This -is- a wine cellar after all!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: We came to the right place! <END DIALOG.>
Hull Drank His First Drink from the Blushing Mermaid
How was the drink, Hull?
HULL: <Hull took a sip, winced, and was barely able to swallow it.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: People come here to gamble and mingle, not drink.  If I served beer this bad, I’d be blushing too!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BORK: Watch your tongue.  This place is home to the easily offended of the... most resourceful sort.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I said it, I meant it, but thanks.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull pushes his drink aside and shakes his head.>
<END DIALOG.>
Hull Drank His First Drink from Drakon’s Tavern
How was the drink, Hull?
HULL: <Hull tried a drink, shrugged, then drank the rest of it quietly.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: It’s a simple mid-grade drink from a no-frills tavern.  Pretty much what I expected.  And I’m pretty sure none of it tastes like dragons.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BARTENDER: <The bartender smiles.>  We don’t make drinks from dragons.  We also don’t make drinks specifically -for- dragons, neither.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thanks.  <END DIALOG.>
Hull Drank His First Drink from Elfsong Tavern
How was the drink, Hull?
HULL: <Hull drank a bit then paused, rubbing his chin.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: It tastes a -lot- like Winthrop’s recipe from Candlekeep!  Not sure who did it first and it doesn’t really matter, but I approve!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BARTENDER: Winthrop?  Candlekeep?  That sounds familiar.  <He ponders a moment.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: It should if you’ve been around Candlekeep in the last 20 years!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BARTENDER: Well, someone years ago came by and offered us a drink recipe in exchange for room and board.  Don’t remember who, though.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Coulda been Winthrop, or the same guy who gave it to him.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull shrugs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BARTENDER: <The bartender shrugs back.>
<END DIALOG.>
Hull Drank His First Drink from Low Lantern
How was the drink, Hull?
HULL: <He drank a bit then clicked his lips together as if trying to identify a strange taste.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: ‘It’s slightly salty, like drinking a pretzel.  I think it’s the salty sea air of this boat tavern getting in the ale.’
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BARTENDER: The sea breeze adds a salty smell to it.  We also salt it a bit for a distinct flavor and to make it fizz more.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Well, -that’s- news!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BARTENDER: It is.  Drink up!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Sure!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull comfortably finishes the rest of his drink.>
<END DIALOG.>
Hull Drank His First Drink from Blade and Stars
How was the drink, Hull?
HULL: <He took a sip then nearly spit out his drink!>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: ‘It’s a mid-grade drink that tastes kinda spicy!  It’s like someone added some hot peppers to this, or they reused some barrels for the peppers and the booze!’
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BARTENDER: It goes well with the sweet wines I sometimes serve.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I’m more for sweet than spicy.  I’m not trying to blow smoke from my mouth around here!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
INNKEEPER: The spice helps me feel -alive!-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: That’s you.  I’m not here for a kick in the head.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
INNKEEPER: <He shrugs.>  Suit yourself.
<END DIALOG.>
BG1: HULL ON TAP (BALDUR’S GATE CITY) JOURNAL ENTRIES
Phase 1: Hull enters Baldur’s Gate City for the first time (any sector - NW, N, NE, SW, S, SE, W, or Mid)
JOURNAL: “Hull, famous drunkard of Candlekeep, let me know he’d like to try drinks from the taverns of the city of Baldur’s Gate.
Specifically, he wanted to try drinks from these places to determine if Winthrop could improve his recipe.  I am welcome to drink with him, but that’s optional.
NORTHWEST BALDUR’S GATE:
-Helm and Cloak
NORTH BALDUR’S GATE:
-Three Old Kegs
NORTHEAST BALDUR’S GATE:
-Blushing Mermaid
WEST BALDUR’S GATE:
-’Candlekeep’s books didn’t say anything about famous taverns here.’
CENTRAL BALDUR’S GATE:
-Drakon’s Tavern
EAST BALDUR’S GATE:
-Elfsong Tavern
SOUTHWEST BALDUR’S GATE:
-’Candlekeep’s books didn’t say anything about famous taverns here.’
SOUTH BALDUR’S GATE:
-Low Lantern - It’s a boat tavern!
SOUTHEAST BALDUR’S GATE:
-Blade and Stars”
Phase 2a: Hull drank from the Helm and Cloak
JOURNAL: “Hull sampled a drink from the Helm and Cloak in northwest Baldur’s Gate.  
To quote him, ‘It’s a ritzy place with booze that tastes imported.  It gets -my- seal of approval!’”
Phase 2b: Hull drank from the Three Old Kegs
JOURNAL: “Hull sampled a drink from the Three Old Kegs in north Baldur’s Gate.  He looked like he would fall to the floor after his first gulp!
To quote him, ‘It’s old and potent, alright!’”
Phase 2c: Hull drank from the Blushing Mermaid
JOURNAL: “Hull sampled a drink from the Blushing Mermaid in northeast Baldur’s Gate.  He took a sip, winced, and was barely able to swallow it.
To quote him, ‘People come here to gamble and mingle, not drink.  If I served beer this bad, I’d be blushing too!’”
Phase 2d: Hull drank from Drakon’s Tavern
JOURNAL: “Hull sampled a drink from Drakon’s Tavern in central Baldur’s Gate.  He tried it, shrugged, then drank the rest of it quietly.
To quote him, ‘It’s a simple mid-grade drink from a no-frills tavern.  Pretty much what I expected.  And I’m pretty sure none of it tastes like dragons.’”
Phase 2e: Hull drank from Elfsong Tavern
JOURNAL: “Hull sampled a drink from Elfsong Tavern in east Baldur’s Gate.  He drank a bit then paused, rubbing his chin.
To quote him, ‘It tastes a -lot- like Winthrop’s recipe from Candlekeep!  Not sure who did it first and it doesn’t really matter, but I approve!’”
Phase 2e: Hull drank from the Low Lantern
JOURNAL: “Hull sampled a drink from the Low Lantern Boat Tavern in south Baldur’s Gate.  He drank a bit then clicked his lips together as if trying to identify a strange taste.
To quote him, ‘It’s slightly salty, like drinking a pretzel.  I think it’s the salty sea air of this boat tavern getting in the ale.’”
Phase 2f: Hull drank from the Blade and Stars
JOURNAL: “Hull sampled a drink from the Blade and Stars in southeast Baldur’s Gate.  He took a sip then nearly spit out his drink!
To quote him, ‘It’s a mid-grade drink that tastes kinda spicy!  It’s like someone added some hot peppers to this, or they reused some barrels for the peppers and the booze!’”
Phase 3: Hull drank from every available bar on the Phase 1 list
JOURNAL:  “Hull has finished his drinking tour of the city of Baldur’s Gate.  He gave me a page with his notes.  I don’t think this would warrant getting me into Candlekeep, or else any hand-written note could warrant entry!”
After Finishing Baldur’s Gate City Beer Tour
HULL: Alright, kid.  Here are my notes for Hull On Tap for the city of Baldur’s Gate.
What should I do with this?
HULL: Keep it handy and add your own notes if you’d like.
Alright.  I might.
HULL: Good, kid.
<PARTY GETS 100 QUEST EXP.  HULL GETS AN EXTRA 1000 QUEST EXP.>
SoA: HULL’S KNIGHTHOOD QUEST
Append this Dialog to Prelate Wessalen’s - No Hull in Party but Phase 1 of Hull’s Knighthood is triggered
One of my friends wants to become a knight in your service.  How would he go about doing that?
PRELATE WESSALEN: <SIR/MADAM>, have him come here and I shall speak with him directly.
<If Hull isn’t in the party but the party has triggered Phase 1 of “Hull’s Knighthood.”>
Append this Dialog to Prelate Wessalen’s - Hull is in Party and Phase 1 of Hull’s Knighthood is triggered
My friend Hull here wants to become a knight in your service.  What would be involved?
PRELATE WESSALEN: <Prelate Wessalen looks at Hull in quiet contemplation, and paces about silently as if inspecting him.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: Are you a nobleman, Hull?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Aye, sir!  I am a gentleman.  My real name is Charlie, but my fellow guardsmen called me Hull - like a big and strong ship.  I’d rather be called Hull.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull bows.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But if you mean if I’m of noble blood, well, I was raised in Candlekeep -far- north of here.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL:  <Hull points at <CHARNAME>.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: My friend here was also raised there by the great sage Gorion who killed the villainous Sarevok in Baldur’s Gate City.  He was the guy in charge of the iron crisis who was trying to start a war with Amn!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: <Prelate Wessalen continues quietly pacing around as if contemplating the validity of Hull’s words.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: We have never had a prospect from Candlekeep before.  Normally the Order requires members to be of noble birth to be knighted.  Candlekeep is an exceptional place - and one I would consider favorably to you, Hull.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: However, I will require something more to vouch for your nobility.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: Your first task as prospect is to pay a 5000 gold prospect fee.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull’s eyes widen in surprise!>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: We are a noble organization in every sense of the word, Hull.  When you are ready with the money, return to me.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thank you, sir, for your time.
<Trigger Phase 2 of “Hull’s Knighthood.”>
Append this Dialog to Prelate Wessalen’s - Hull is in Party and Phase 2 of Hull’s Knighthood is triggered
Let us discuss the matter of nobility and compensation for Hull’s knighting.
PRELATE WESSALEN: Yes, <CHARNAME>.  I require 5000 gold, payable in full, to proceed.
Apologies, sir.  We shall talk more about this later.
PRELATE WESSALEN: Very well.
[If the party has at least 5000G] Take this coin and let us proceed.
<The party loses 5000G.>
PRELATE WESSALEN: Yes, yes, it’s all here.  <Begin Phase 3.>
[If <CHARNAME> or Hull (via the NPC Stronghold mod) has claimed de’Arnise Keep as their stronghold] Sir, we have legal claim to de’Arnise Keep as our property.  Would you count that as enough?
PRELATE WESSALEN: <Prelate Wessalen pauses a moment and ponders.>  Yes, <CHARNAME>.  It is a property fit for nobility.  <Begin Phase 3.>
[If <CHARNAME> or Hull (via the NPC Stronghold mod) has claimed the Athkatlan Temple of Lathander or Helm as their stronghold] Sir, we have legal claim to one of the temples in this very district as our property.  Would you count that as enough?
PRELATE WESSALEN: <Prelate Wessalen pauses a moment and ponders.>  Yes, <CHARNAME>.  It is a property fit for one of proper spiritual standing.  <Begin Phase 3.>
Append this Dialog to Prelate Wessalen’s - Hull is in Party and Phase 3 of Hull’s Knighthood is triggered
PRELATE WESSALEN: Hull, now that we have established your nobility, and your friend <CHARNAME> here has also vouched for you, I leave you with a more difficult task.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: We have recently received word that vile creatures from the Underdark have been covertly scouting our city from below.  These Illithids - known also to many as Mind Flayers - are likely somewhere in or near Athkatla’s sewers.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: We have reason to believe that these Illithids have been in contact with others of their kind.  If you find any proof of outside communication, bring it to me.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: <He pauses a moment and looks intently at Hull, then at the rest of the room.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: These Illithids are not an immediate threat, but will likely become one if left alone.  Your job is to stop this threat.  These creatures are evil by nature, and will likely require much preparation and violence to overcome.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: If you can somehow negotiate peacefully with them into leaving Athkatla and its underground territory, that is even better.  However, that is NOT at all likely.  In this case, you should prepare for war!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: Illithids have also commonly enslaved others.  If you can, spare whatever slaves you find, if any.  Destroy the slaves if you must.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: Conduct yourself in a manner worthy of a member of the Most Noble Order of the Radiant Heart, but beyond this, your methods are up to you.  Who and what you bring with you will likely determine your failure or success on this mission.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: There is no immediate deadline for this task, but the sooner this threat is gone, the sooner you, Hull, will be able to proceed to your next task.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: The Most Noble Order of the Radiant Heart will not directly aid you in this mission.  I trust you will be properly resourceful in completing this mission.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: And, lest you forget your assignment, I have prepared these orders for you in written form.  I tell you these things now so you are more prepared for the dangers to come.  I have already prayed for your swift success.  You are dismissed.
<The party receives the note Hull’s Initiation - Illithid Extermination Assignment Orders from Prelate Wessalen.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thank you, sir.  <END DIALOG.>
Append this Dialog to Prelate Wessalen’s - Hull is in Party and Phase 4 of Hull’s Knighthood is triggered
We have come to discuss our mission to make Athkatla safer by removing Illithids from its sewer.
PRELATE WESSALEN: <Prelate Wessalen quietly smiles at Hull.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: Very well, Hull.  You have succeeded in this task.  Did you find any proof of Illithid communication?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If the party has the Illithid Correspondence note.>
HULL: Aye, sir.  Here’s a note we found.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: <Prelate Wessalen examines the note, then quickly recoils in pain from trying to read the alien script.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: Yes, yes.  You have succeeded just as I asked.  Thank you, Hull.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And thank -you-, sir!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: Please keep that note.  I have already memorized the appropriate parts and will file my report.
<The party gains +1 reputation.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If the party doesn’t have the Illithid Correspondence note.>
HULL: No, sir.  We can only assume this was a forward base for more in the Underdark.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: Very well.  Hull, you still fulfilled your primary objective and I thank you for that.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And thank -you-, sir!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<Regardless, the dialog continues here.>
PRELATE WESSALEN: Now, Hull, for your next test, a test of your character.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull looks at the prelate in full attention!>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: A knight of our order must vouch for you.  The man I trust most for this task is Sir Keldorn Firecam, a senior paladin of our order, who also went into Athkatla’s sewer on a similar lead.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Keldorn isn’t in the party.>
PRELATE WESSALEN: Go find Keldorn and return to me with Hull and Keldorn in your group.  <END DIALOG.  BEGIN PHASE 5.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Keldorn is in the party.>
PRELATE WESSALEN: Good, Keldorn!  I am glad you are here to testify of Hull’s character.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: Tell me Keldorn, what good do you see in Hull, and is it enough to continue him with initiation?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull looks a bit nervous as he faces Keldorn with eager anticipation.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KELDORN: Prelate Wessalen, sir, in my time knowing Hull, he has reminded me of myself from many years ago.  He has zeal for the knighthood and compassion for his friend and sort of foster child, <CHARNAME>.  What else would drive a man to travel hundreds of miles here with no easy way home on a lead that <CHARNAME> had been captured?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KELDORN: But we know that zeal without the proper knowledge and temperance is destructive.  There have been plenty of zealots for cults and cult leaders that turned the people against themselves and each other.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KELDORN: We also know that compassion without justice is a frailty, a weakness that is unfit for someone of our higher calling.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KELDORN: Prelate, sir, you have already verified Hull’s combat abilities and his eagerness to please you with certain sensitive and difficult matters when he knows you are evaluating him.  Good!  This will help prepare him for any times ahead when all of creation will be -continually- evaluating him!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KELDORN: I have handled a variety of prospects throughout my time with the Order.  I have learned to see the good in others, correct the bad, and destroy the irredeemable.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KELDORN: We are -all- works in progress, sir, and I believe that with proper guidance, Hull here would make a fine addition to our ranks.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull’s posture loosens as he faintly breathes a sigh of relief.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: Thank you, Keldorn.  There is still one more test for you, Hull.  It is a matter of your reputation.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull’s relaxation quickly turns to curiosity then uncomfortable anticipation.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: Since the first time you entered this building, Hull, asking for the location of your friend here, <CHARNAME>, you have been... different in terms of the candidates we’ve had.  Most are lords with a long pedigree to maintain or improve upon.  You... would be the first generation of your line.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: You have expressed a genuine interest in doing what you believed was best for your friend <CHARNAME> here.  After all, you believe that <CHARNAME>’s foster father, Gorion, a noble sage of Candlekeep, was a proper example to you.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: I sent messengers to Candlekeep and asked certain people you likely know what they said of your past.  The fullness of the nature of this inquiry was kept hidden to prevent people from rigging the answers.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: Ulraunt, the proud Wizard in charge of Candlekeep, had little to say about you.  He was concerned about how the Candlekeep guard in general was aiding and abetting a murderer - you, <CHARNAME> - but, when pressed, later admitted each of you was framed.  He offered no apology for how he treated you, <CHARNAME>.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: Dreppin the stablehand said that you occasionally helped her with sick animals by feeding them antidotes you kept at the ready.  When asked why you normally kept these items on hand in the general safety of candlekeep, Dreppin said that it was the best hangover cure you had found.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: Fuller, your fellow man-at-arms and ‘drinking buddy’ agreed with this assessment.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: Winthrop, the innkeeper of Candlekeep, seemed to be totally unashamed about how much business he gained by aiding the Candlekeep guard in its drunken revelry, with Fuller and you, Hull, mentioned as two of his most profitable patrons.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: The Gatewarden and Keeper of the Portal mentioned how they sometimes caught you coming into work late, drunk, or hung over.  This problem seemed to become lesser as time went on, though you occasionally relapsed.  Somehow, these men saw the best in you and trusted you to continue to guard the place.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: Firebeard - erm, FireBEAD - Elvenhair seemed to express interest in you, Hull.  In his occasional time in Candlekeep, you two seemed to have an interest in literature and the arcane.  We inferred that you were intelligent enough to be a wizard, and that you would have been his apprentice.  For whatever reason, you continued as a Candlekeep guard instead, drinking your time away and, to quote Fuller, “staring at walls for hours.”
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: One of the Priests of Oghma on duty in Candlekeep, Sirius by name, said that you also had a passing interest in the priesthood.  Sometimes, you two chatted about divinity and what it would be like to be in Oghma’s service, or perhaps in the service of another deity like Amaunator.  Again, you seemed wise enough to channel divinity as a priest but continued your life as a guard.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: Tethtoril, one of the scribes of Candlekeep, spoke well of you.  He trusted you with a one-way teleportation to Athkatla so as to, as he put it, “Continue nurturing Gorion’s Ward.”  He also remarked that among the Candlekeep guardsmen, you had the greatest interest in actually -reading- the contents of Candlekeep’s library.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: But there was something about that fateful night when you nonchalantly let Gorion and his ward out of the gate to Candlekeep for the final time.  Soon thereafter, Gorion was ambushed by Sarevok and his thugs and you took notice.  Fuller went after Gorion’s body for a proper burial and you, Hull...
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: You chased after <CHARNAME> as a protector, trying to do what you believed Gorion would have wanted had he not been killed that night.  You had a sudden change of heart as if that drunken, irresponsible version of you was just a shell that you shed or an act you retired.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: And now Hull, here you are, acting like the proverbial and sometimes literal knight in shining armor to <CHARNAME>, Gorion’s Ward and foster child, chasing hundreds of miles from home for someone that, according to our reports from Candlekeep, you were not intimate friends with until after Gorion’s death.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: <Prelate Wessalen pauses a moment, inhales deeply, then resumes.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: Tell me, Hull:  Why were Gorion and <CHARNAME> so important to you that you had this awakening, this sudden change of heart?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull pauses a moment, breathes deeply, and begins to speak.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Prelate, sir, thank you for your patience with me.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: To answer your question, my mother died in childbirth.  My father died at an early age, soon after he, uh, got us into Candlekeep.  I know what it’s like to be alone.  So does my friend, here, Gorion’s child.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But I got bored of being a Candlekeep guard, sir.  I think all of us on Candlekeep’s guard did.  Yeah, we got to meet dignitaries, but only for short times, and usually just to give them directions or carry their things.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Gorion was special.  He was loving, kind, patient, and wise.  He was the sorta guy I wished I had as my father.  It also helped that he had a certain charisma about him.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I knew that Gorion’s kid was just kicked out of Candlekeep and into a dangerous world and in a country on the verge of war.  You probably know from experience, sir, just how dangerous traveling the countryside is, and sometimes also the civilized areas!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I couldn’t make up for my past, sir.  My life in Candlekeep before Gorion died was just ‘good enough.’  I worked well enough to avoid getting dismissed, and they paid me enough so I wouldn’t quit.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But I remembered what another priest had said, “A free man is defined by what he does today.”
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I was tired of my old life.  There wasn’t much more to do.  Yeah, I could stay longer in Candlekeep and take over when one of the commanding officers died or retired, but that would be more of the same.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I felt alone.  Gorion died alone.  His child was gonna be alone unless someone cared enough to stop that.  Here was my chance to fix someone else’s problem and be helped in return.  If you call that compassion, then it’s compassion.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I know I’m not the only one who left Candlekeep to help Gorion’s newly-orphaned kid.  Gorion adopted another child, a human girl named Imoen.
<If Imoen is in the party.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: Hi!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: Yes, we know -all- about Imoen’s dealings in Candlekeep and how she was unfortunately involved with the Cowled Wizards in Waukeen’s Promenade.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: <Imoen looks surprised and uncomfortable, but still manages to smile.>
<If Imoen isn’t in the party.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: Yes, we know -all- about Imoen’s dealings in Candlekeep and how she was unfortunately involved with the Cowled Wizards in Waukeen’s Promenade.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: When Imoen left Candlekeep to help her family, I caught her sneaking around.  She told me enough of what was happening that I wanted to follow.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Then, sir, the rest is history.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull inhales deeply and sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: Hull, now that you know that we know your past outside of Candlekeep, what regrets do you have?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Waiting too long, sir, for important stuff to happen just so I could be part of it.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: Your honesty becomes you, Hull.  At ease, soldier.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull sighs and looks relieved.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: And as for you, <CHARNAME>...  <The prelate turns to face you.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: Why do you wish to help your friend become knighted by us?
Hull is my friend and brother in battle.  He risked my life to save me.
HULL: Yeah.  Thanks for reminding him that I’m your bodyguard!
PRELATE WESSALEN: Well, <CHARNAME>, I am glad you mentioned that.  Battle has a way of bringing out who we are at our worst and at our best.  I appreciate your optimism regarding Hull, here, <CHARNAME>.
Hull clearly wants to be a better man, and, to him, being knighted in your order is simply the best way that he understands.
HULL: Good, kid.  I’m glad you learned that lesson!
PRELATE WESSALEN: <CHARNAME>, is Hull not enough of a better man already compared to when you two lived in Candlekeep?  How do things change for you if he is knighted?
Being knighted is Hull’s dream.  He has improved notably since leaving Candlekeep, but Keldorn mentioned we are -all- works in progress.  I want Hull to be the -best- he can be, and not just better than he was last month or last year.  I think Hull wants that, too.
PRELATE WESSALEN: Then you answered my question.  You see the good in Hull, and like Keldorn, you seek to bring out the best in Hull.
HULL: Well said!  Thanks!
After all we’ve gone through in Hull’s initiation trials including your -thorough- research into our pasts, do you -still- not acknowledge that Hull seeks meaningful challenges to overcome in his life and that being knighted is one that he has agreed to do eagerly?
PRELATE WESSALEN: Then you answered my question.  You see the good in Hull, and like Keldorn, you seek to bring out the best in Hull.
HULL: Well said!  Thanks!
Have the others knighted in your order -not- gone through drastic life-changing events for the better because of their initiation and acceptance into the order?
PRELATE WESSALEN: Then you answered my question.  You see the good in Hull, and like Keldorn, you seek to bring out the best in Hull.
HULL: Well said!  Thanks!
I - and maybe also other members of society - live with the satisfaction of knowing that, just like Gorion, I leave a positive and lasting legacy for someone that chose to treat me like family regardless of whether I deserved it.
PRELATE WESSALEN: Then you answered my question.  You see the good in Hull, and like Keldorn, you seek to bring out the best in Hull.
HULL: Well said!  Thanks!
Knighting Hull allows him to act as a better man by increasing the power of good in the world and reducing evil.
PRELATE WESSALEN: Then you answered my question.  You see the good in Hull, and like Keldorn, you seek to bring out the best in Hull.
HULL: Well said!  Thanks!
Have the others knighted in your order -not- gone through drastic life-changing events for the better because of their initiation and acceptance into the order?
PRELATE WESSALEN: Then you answered my question.  You see the good in Hull, and like Keldorn, you seek to bring out the best in Hull.
HULL: Well said!  Thanks!
Hull is a good man at heart and seeks a title to remind him of who he is and what he can and should do.
PRELATE WESSALEN: Then you answered my question.  You see the good in Hull, and like Keldorn, you seek to bring out the best in Hull.
HULL: Well said!  Thanks!
If Hull -doesn’t- get knighted soon, he would likely become a mess and go on a drunken rampage.  I’m pretty sure none of us -truly- want that!
HULL: Kid-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: <CHARNAME>, I know you probably meant that as a joke, and I will overlook it this time.  Give me a better reason that answers the question.
HULL: Phew!
<Remove this dialog option from the tree.>
Hull has already proven he can and will cross the world to help someone in need whom he trusts.  He did it for me, and if he’s knighted, it’s quite likely he or we will do the same for others.
PRELATE WESSALEN: Then you answered my question.  You see the good in Hull, and like Keldorn, you seek to bring out the best in Hull.
HULL: Well said!  Thanks!
There is simply a satisfaction that comes from helping others that encourages people to do more good.  As a teacher, you likely understand this.
PRELATE WESSALEN: Then you answered my question.  You see the good in Hull, and like Keldorn, you seek to bring out the best in Hull.
HULL: Well said!  Thanks!
I want him to be happy.
HULL: Aww, thanks, kid!
PRELATE WESSALEN: <CHARNAME>, that... was an unusual response.  It sounded like you spoke from your heart.  Happiness helps morale and performance in all of life, and promoting happiness and joy in others in the right context and with the right methodology is a noble endeavor.
If you let him in, it’ll help him stay sober.
HULL: <Hull looks at you as if in shock!>
PRELATE WESSALEN: I agree, <CHARNAME>.  Sobriety and clearheadedness are necessary parts of life.  There is much practical value in remaining sober to fight more tactically.
Hull has been like a father figure to me.  Hull isn’t Gorion, but Hull keeps trying to act like he is by being my ‘Uncle Hull.’
HULL: <Hull smiles widely.>
PRELATE WESSALEN: <CHARNAME>, we know all about Gorion’s legacy from Candlekeep and it is a noble one.  Loving correction is a helpful and necessary part of everyone’s life, and encouraging Hull to act like Gorion to you has been transformative.
I’ve already treated him like he’s my knight.
HULL: <Hull nods.>
PRELATE WESSALEN: Yes, <CHARNAME>, and the fact that you asked about his knighthood is evident as such.  I appreciate that you wisely exercise your vision and imagination.
If Hull is knighted, surely that means you get him some better equipment, right?
HULL: <Hull looks around, his mouth slightly open, not entirely sure what to say or if he should even speak!>
PRELATE WESSALEN: <CHARNAME>, that is a matter for us to handle -if- he is knighted.  Please answer my previous question.
<This dialog option is removed from the list but the other dialog responses remain.>
Keldorn has already vouched for Hull, and I also trust Keldorn’s judgment.
HULL: Good call, kid.
PRELATE WESSALEN: I see that you are willing and able to listen to wisdom spoken by those in authority.
[If the party hasn’t already rescued Imoen from Spellhold] I believe that if he’s knighted, you can help us rescue Imoen from Spellhold.
HULL: Wow!  I didn’t even think of that!
PRELATE WESSALEN: I see each of you is loyal and compassionate to your adopted family.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: Imoen was legally taken captive to Spellhold, even if the punishment for her actions was extreme.  Hull being knighted would not change this result, nor suddenly grant him access to new resources with which to reach Spellhold, but I understand your intentions were good, <CHARNAME>.
What answers do you really want to hear and -not- want to hear?
HULL: <Hull suddenly looks at <CHARNAME> with uncomfortable confusion.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: <Prelate Wessalen smiles.>  I simply want to hear the truth.  I cannot decide your reason for you.  Please answer the question now.
<Return to the previous dialog tree with this response removed.>
Admitting Hull as a knight means that Candlekeep has representation in your order instead of it being fully or largely comprised of local members.  It also might mean more chapters of your order elsewhere in the world, such as closer to Baldur’s Gate, which could inspire others to want to promote good in the world in regions closer to home for them.
HULL: That’s -clever-, kid!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: <CHARNAME>, I respect you for thinking strategically.  Not everyone we consider for knighthood would even dream of thinking on that big of a scale.  Surely, <CHARNAME>, if Hull becomes a knight in our service, he would do well to learn your mentality about fostering the best in others on a worldwide scale.
[If the party has already completed the quest Paladin Stronghold Duties] I am already a member of The Most Noble Order of the Radiant Heart.  Have my words not vouched enough for Hull’s admittance?
HULL: Yeah!  Go team!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: <CHARNAME>, I thank you for reminding me of that.  I appreciate your desire to lead by example, and this is a quality that -all- knights would do well to have!
<After the player chooses a valid response.>
PRELATE WESSALEN: Hull, our next consideration is your spiritual well-being.  Among other things, we are a spiritual organization.  Most of our members are divine casters of some kind.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: During our investigation of Candlekeep, we discovered just how thoroughly the residents worship Oghma, god of knowledge.  A follower of Oghma is, among other things, unique in our organization.  Most of us worship Torm, Helm, or Lathander.  You’ll not find a single member worshiping a vile deity such as Bane or Cyric nor a controversial one such as Mask.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: Fortunately for you, it seems Oghma himself is becoming more accepting of worshippers of all worldviews, which further qualifies you for our organization, Hull.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Sir, are you about to ask if I worship Oghma?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: <The prelate smiles.>  Hull, we already know.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: Now, Hull, there is one more opinion we strongly consider for candidates of our organization, and that is how the typical people of Amn see you.  Many call this your reputation.  The fact that Keldorn accompanied you here today willingly and on what I consider to be friendly terms further confirms this.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: However, merely associating with a member of our order on these terms is not enough.  Keldorn has had a reputation of being among those of pliable morality and spiritual blindness and helped open their spiritual eyes to the right path.  He has shared with me accounts of those who fell to the wayside because even with loving persuasion and well-founded motivations and arguments, they would not be moved.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: Keldorn, <CHARNAME>, Hull, I thank you each for testimonies and your time here today.  Please allow me a week - 7 days - to make my decision.  <CHARNAME> and Hull, return to me after this time with a heroic reputation and I will be more likely to agree to knighting you.  Keldorn, your presence for this occasion is welcome, but optional.  You are all dismissed.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KELDORN: <Keldorn salutes.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thank you, sirs!
<END DIALOG.>
<Start Phase 6 of Hull’s Knighthood quest.  Complete phase 5 of it if that hasn’t already happened.>
If Phase 6 is Active: After 7 Days Pass
<Start Phase 7 of Hull’s Knighthood quest.  Complete phase 6 of it if that hasn’t already happened.>
Append this Dialog to Prelate Wessalen’s - Hull is in Party and Phase 7 of Hull’s Knighthood is triggered
<If phase 7 of this quest is triggered and <CHARNAME> visits Prelate Wessalen without Hull in the group, the prelate’s dialog is as normal.>
<If Hull is in the party for this phase, the dialog that appears next depends on the party’s reputation.  This dialog sequence only happens once at most.>
<If the party’s reputation is less than 18.>
PRELATE WESSALEN: <The prelate looks at each of you and smiles.  He inhales deeply before he begins speaking.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: Thank you, everyone, for returning as I have said.  I made my decision.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: <The prelate continues smiling widely.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: Hull, you have been denied entry into our order - for the moment.  Your reputation - which is inherently linked to that of you, <CHARNAME>, Hull’s sponsor and fellow representative from Candlekeep - is simply inadequate for me to allow you into our order yet.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull looks like he’s about to panic or collapse!>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: Hull, <CHARNAME>, there is hope.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull regains some of his composure.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: For each of you, your reputation was your only disqualification.  This means that through a combination of charitable contributions and heroic actions throughout Amn and perhaps elsewhere, the common people as well as those in our order will see you more favorably.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: Consider this mercy, Hull, for you are our first prospect from Candlekeep and have no long lineage nor dynasty to uphold.  If ever there comes a future time in our order when you are expected to act mercifully, we will expect you to remember the mercy we showed you and act mercifully in kind.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: Now, go and do what is requested of each of you.  You are all dismissed.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull sighs and turns to <CHARNAME>.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Alright, kid!  Time to go bribe a temple and take credit for cleaning the countryside!
Are you sure ‘bribe’ is the right term?
HULL: What else do you call a massive influx of cash given to someone to make you look better and have them act more favorably toward you?
Where should we go next to improve your reputation?
HULL: Find someone in trouble and help ‘em!  That’s simple to say and sometimes painful to do.
Onward, Hull.  Remember the mercy Prelate Wessalen gave you.
HULL: Yeah.  Thanks, kid for making me look good to him!
<If the party’s reputation is at least 18.>
PRELATE WESSALEN: <The prelate looks at each of you and frowns.  He looks concerned.  He inhales deeply before he begins speaking.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: Thank you, everyone, for returning as I have said.  I made my decision.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: <The prelate’s face quickly turns somber.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: Hull, I have one more question for you before I declare my verdict.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: <The prelate looks intensely into Hull’s eyes, as if staring into his soul.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: Hull, do you believe -yourself- to be worthy of this position of knighthood if it is offered to you?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull looks back at the prelate, confused and uncomfortable.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Sir, is this a trick question?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: No, Hull.  Answer the question as I asked it.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Sir, yes.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: Yes -what-, Hull?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull coughs.>  Sir, yes, I -am- worthy of this position.  Are you ready to give it to me?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: <The prelate’s eyes briefly look down at the ground.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull’s eyes look down to follow, confused.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: Hull, I command thee, kneel.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Alright, sir.  I’ll take that as a yeah.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: <The prelate’s expression becomes one of noble dignity and a radiant smile.  He draws his sword and ceremoniously taps each of Hull’s shoulders with it.>  Hull, I hereby declare you a member of our order.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Alleluia!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: Arise, Hull.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull stands the tallest and proudest you’ve seen him.  He’s just short of jumping around like an energetic child!>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: Now, Hull, before I send you on your first assignment as a knight in our order, what questions do each of you have for me?  You ask first, Hull.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Sir, what’s a paladin?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: <The prelate starts to inhale deeply when Hull interrupts him.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: That’s how I felt when you started knighting me when it looks like your best friend just died.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: Touche, Hull.  I did that to further test you.  How would you respond?  And how could you act joyfully in the future if something terrible had truly happened - like <CHARNAME> dying here?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Next question:  Is EVERYTHING around here a test?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: Yes, Hull.  Everything regarding knighthood is a test - either a test in the past, a test in the future, or a test happening -now.-  Such is our life, Hull.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: I understand, Hull.  I was once in a similar situation when I was a newly-christened knight.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Alright, sir.  Thank you.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: Now, Hull, for your first assignment, go see Cromwell in the Docks District in Athkatla.  I have sent him work orders and some supplies for your gear.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: Note, however, that most of what I have for you will cost you financially.  As I said, Hull, it is a test.  Will you accept it and succeed, then be made better through this trial and success?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Alright, sir.  What do you mean by ‘most?’
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: As a gift for passing your initiation, I have sponsored the creation of a helmet for you, Hull.  I dubbed it ‘Sobriety’ in honor of an expectation of your new lifestyle, Hull, but it will be useful to you as well in the field.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Sir, thanks.  I think.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: There is -great- power in self-control, Hull.  Voluntarily giving this control to a drink or a smoke or some other pleasure to the degree that it controls you is simply dangerous, Hull.  I know that you know this.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Aye, sir.  What next?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: Hull, continue aiding <CHARNAME> in <HIS/HER> mission.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Aye, sir.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: According to our investigation, Gorion and Elminster were friends, and even Elminster himself was in favor of <CHARNAME> understanding <HIS/HER> identity, legacy, and potential.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: <CHARNAME>, this means whoever you are and whatever you are doing is -so- important that the fate of the world may be at stake!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: Now, <CHARNAME>, what questions did you have for me?
Do you normally conduct such thorough investigations for all of your candidates?
PRELATE WESSALEN: Yes, my <PRO_LADYLORD>.  Being knighted in our order is such a significant matter - indeed, it is intentionally an ordeal - because we only accept those who are willing and able to help the order, help the world, and its inhabitants.  Some merely -think- they are ready without being ready.
Since Hull’s been knighted, may we also get a room here?
PRELATE WESSALEN: <The prelate smiles and chuckles.>  <CHARNAME>, you, Hull, and your guests - if they are welcome in this hall - may stay here freely.  Room and board are provided.  We trust you will act wisely regarding who you bring in here, and if we believe someone to be suspicious or unwelcome, we will handle the situation IF it happens.
What’s Hull’s salary as a knight?
PRELATE WESSALEN: Hull, let me be clear with you on this.  Because the vast majority of our knights are nobles, they have not drawn a salary from the order in the traditional sense.  
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I was really lookin’ forward to that!  Sir!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
PRELATE WESSALEN: Instead, a typical knight is paid by those he helps and is encouraged to help all the redeemable - rich and poor, slave and free.  We do encourage those we help to properly compensate us materially, for we know that a worker is worth his keep, generosity is welcoming, and stinginess is repulsive.
How do we stay in good standing with the order?
PRELATE WESSALEN: <CHARNAME>, the simplest way is to maintain a positive reputation.  A heroic reputation is preferable, but a positive reputation overall is all we require since you have proven yourselves in that regard.  A simple way to consider it is this:  If Keldorn is willing to join you as an equal, you are likely in good standing with us.
We’ve already talked a -lot.-  I have nothing more to ask you now.
PRELATE WESSALEN: Very well, <SIR/MADAM>.  Continue ever to walk in the light of truth.
<Quest complete!  Everyone gets 10,000 quest EXP.  Hull gets +40,000 quest EXP and his alignment changes to Lawful Good (LG).  The party gets a note - Hull’s Work Order Receipt from Cromwell.  Hull’s name also changes to Sir Hull.>
SoA: HULL’S KNIGHTHOOD QUEST JOURNAL ENTRIES
Phase 1: Hull is in the Party when Entering the Most Noble Order of the Radiant Heart in Athkatla’s Temple District
JOURNAL:  “Hull, a former guard from Candlekeep, has followed me - to Athkatla of all places! - and wants to become a knight after the Most Noble Order of the Radiant Heart.
He believes that talking to Prelate Wessalen is the best way to go.”
Phase 2
JOURNAL:  “Hull, a former guard from Candlekeep, has followed me to Athkatla of all places and wants to become a knight after the Most Noble Order of the Radiant Heart.
Prelate Wessalen has required 5000 gold coins from us to pay for Hull’s initiation, but there may be another way.”
Phase 3
JOURNAL:  “Hull, a former guard from Candlekeep, has followed me to Athkatla of all places and wants to become a knight after the Most Noble Order of the Radiant Heart.
We have satisfied Prelate Wessalen’s requirement of Hull’s nobility, but now we are tasked with investigating an Illithid base under Athkatla!  This prelate seems like he’s eager to have initiates killed!
At least by killing these things and bringing the prelate proof of any communication, I assume Athkatla will be safer.”
Phase 4
JOURNAL:  “Hull, a former guard from Candlekeep, has followed me to Athkatla of all places and wants to become a knight after the Most Noble Order of the Radiant Heart.
The Illithid base in Athkatla’s sewer is destroyed and I found proof of their communication, strange as it may be.  Prelate Wesselan will want to see this!”
Phase 5
JOURNAL:  “Hull, a former guard from Candlekeep, has followed me to Athkatla of all places and wants to become a knight after the Most Noble Order of the Radiant Heart.
I am to find Sir Keldorn Firecam then persuade him to join us when we talk with Prelate Wessalen.  Will Keldorn favor Hull?”
Phase 6
JOURNAL:  “Hull, a former guard from Candlekeep, has followed me to Athkatla of all places and wants to become a knight after the Most Noble Order of the Radiant Heart.
Hull and I are to return to Prelate Wesselan after at least 7 days have passed with a heroic reputation.”
Phase 7
JOURNAL:  “Hull, a former guard from Candlekeep, has followed me to Athkatla of all places and wants to become a knight after the Most Noble Order of the Radiant Heart.
It has been at least 7 days since Prelate Wessalen last met with us about Hull’s knighthood and Hull and I are to return to the prelate with a heroic reputation, whatever that means.  Keldorn’s presence for this occasion is optional.”
Phase 8 - This phase only triggers if the party has less than 18 reputation when talking to Prelate Wessalen after 7 days
JOURNAL:  “Hull, a former guard from Candlekeep, has followed me to Athkatla of all places and wants to become a knight after the Most Noble Order of the Radiant Heart.
After Hull’s THOROUGH examination for knighthood, the last thing we need is a heroic reputation.  Time to make some large donations to temples or/and help others until we reach that level of positive renown!”
Phase 9 (Completion) - This phase only triggers if the party at least 18 reputation when talking to Prelate Wessalen after 7 days
JOURNAL:  “Hull, a former guard from Candlekeep, has followed me to Athkatla of all places and wants to become a knight after the Most Noble Order of the Radiant Heart.
Hull has FINALLY become a full knight!  Prelate Wessalen sent us to the dwarven smith Cromwell in the Docks District of Athkatla for items to be crafted for Hull.  Beyond that, Hull and I are to help each other fulfill my destiny, for even Elminster believed I was that important!”
ToB: BATTLEMASTER BAELOTH - INQUIRE WITHIN
This quest is included to provide an in-game reason why Baeloth would work with - and later against - the Red Wizards.
This quest will start and be completed automatically if Baeloth is in the party for Neera’s ToB quest when the group is warped to Dennaton’s Thayan arena after talking with Szass Tam.
Canonically, Baeloth would end up in the Thayan arena anyway in time for Black Pits II which, also canonically, happens after ToB ends.  The time between these events is open to interpretation as mod makers.  (I assume Baeloth regained his powers he lost at the end of Black Pits 1.)
There are 3 ways this quest can proceed after arriving in the Thayan arena’s shop area:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             * The party waits for Baeloth to return from his inquiry by waiting 1 in-game hour (5 real time minutes).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             * The party rests after Baeloth leaves to inquire, by which time he will have returned and also been rested.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             * The party warps away to the Vicross Estate.  If Baeloth wasn’t in the party when the party warps, Baeloth will warp in 1 in-game hour (5 minutes of real time) later OR after Vicross dies, whichever comes first.  Baeloth will only warp in if the party is out of combat.
After Talkin at the Thayan Arena Shop with Baeloth in the Party
BAELOTH: Well, well, well my welcoming committee!  We have arrived!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Edwin is in the party.>
EDWIN: Yes, yes.  You think my homeland is impressive, drow?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Most -monumentally!-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
EDWIN: Good, good.  You can kiss up to the leaders later.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: My lips are loaded!
Where are we?
BAELOTH: Are your eyes blinded?  We were whisked away to Thay!  We are guests in their -glorious- arena!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NEERA: Wild magic does that, being -wild- ‘n’ all.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Edwin is in the party.>
EDWIN: And if that fool Szass Tam is here, he can kiss my arse!
‘We have arrived?’  What do you mean, Baeloth?
BAELOTH: Big Battlemaster Baeloth has just found a new humble home for his Black Pits!
Are you about to cause some more trouble in the arena?  We’ve done -plenty- of that for one day!
BAELOTH: No, no, no, but thank you for thinking of that!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NEERA: I guess that if you -were- planning on more trouble in the arena, we might Wild Magic up some Vicross.  Accidentally, of course.  On purpose if we could.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Allow me an absence while I inquire within.  
Start talking sense -now!-
BAELOTH: Oh, my cunning companion.  Our chaos in this coliseum can wait.  -I- wish to work with the battlemaster of this -beautiful- building.
<Pick one.>
That sounds -just- like you, Baeloth.
BAELOTH: Good, my gracious guard!  Allow me a few minutes and we shall reconvene.
Let’s make sure we’re safe in -this- area first.  Maybe someone here can tell us more about what’s going on.
BAELOTH: Certainly!
Wait!  What?!
BAELOTH: Baeloth has been removed from his precious Black Pits, but Baeloth’s Black Pits shall never leave Baeloth!
Let’s make sure we’re safe in -this- area first.  Maybe someone here can tell us more about what’s going on.
BAELOTH: Certainly!
Baeloth, what do you know about this place?
BAELOTH: This -awesome- arena is -thoroughly- Thayan.  It’s a premier pugilist pit in the region and perhaps the finest in all Faerun!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Edwin is in the area.>
EDWIN: Nobles with more money than sense come here to gamble on battles.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
EDWIN: Dennaton’s the Head Red Wizard here.  I’m surprised he got that promotion, that damned ass-kisser!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
EDWIN: Just don’t piss anyone off unless we’re trying to kill them.  Our country at least tries to -feign- civility.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NEERA: And that makes me feel -even more- like I want to leave.  Like -right now!-
Well, we’re here and we have a Vicross to catch.  Let’s go, everyone!
DRIZZT: Onward, friends!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: So be it! (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NEERA: Absolutely! (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: Lead on.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: And so our heroes went after that wandering wild mage!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Last one to her is a stale beer I don’t wanna drink!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NEERA: <Neera peers quizzically at Hull.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Don’t think too hard!  It’s a figure of speech!  <END DIALOG.>
If the Party Waited in the Thayan Arena for Baeloth to Return
BAELOTH: And we are -back!-  On with the show!
What did you scheme up -this- time, Baeloth?
BAELOTH: Despite my darling enterprise of the Black Pits perishing by those whose name shant be said, I contain a cadre of contacts.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: I simply donated to Dennaton some names and locations of certain slavers and let Dennaton do his dirty work.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: I could see myself getting cozy in the Thayan coliseum - after enough time elapsed.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Worry not, my wandering warrior!  I’m not about to abandon my Bhaalspawn buddy to set up shop here!
Are you trying to get revenge on Najim, your old genie servant?
BAELOTH: <Baeloth sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Revenge?  No.  Reparations?  Yes.
BAELOTH: Given enough time, that noodle-headed Najim will bumble about and cause himself some trouble.  I -rescued- him from his previous master, but that’s another tale.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: He hid some slaves who outwitted me, but he can’t hide from me.  Technically, he never left my service.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: I have bigger fish to fry than trying to settle a score with him now.  Wait awhile, call upon some contacts, and he’ll feel just how hard I can squeeze his balls from across time and space!
That is NOT an image I want to remember!
BAELOTH: It isn’t Telekinesis, I assure you!
[If CHARNAME said he was Baeloth’s former champion] I hope you didn’t mean me!  I -did- outwit you and beat you in your arena, after all!
BAELOTH: <Baeloth sighs.>  (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: No, no!  Not you!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: And don’t remind me.
What if I told you to leave, Baeloth?
BAELOTH: Ooh, hoo hoo!  What wonderful words!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: But I appeal your adjudication!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: My beloved Black Pits are my pride and joy, but being part of battles between Bhaalspawn is by -far- better!
Fine, fine.  You can stay.
BAELOTH: Your sentence is like a soothing song to my soul!
Baeloth, it’s time to go.  You clearly love this new arena too much for me to trust you to focus on the task at hand.
BAELOTH: What will happen to me, Baeloth Barrityl, Showman of Showmen, Entertainer of Entertainers? (from here)
Sorry I set you off.  You can stay if you want.
BAELOTH: Your sentence is like a soothing song to my soul!
Leave.  The Thayan arena is clearly your dream, anyway.
BAELOTH: Enough! Baeloth the Entertainer goes ELSEWHERE.  (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Good day.  (from here)
<End Dialog.  Baeloth warps out of the game world, dropping all plot items.>
Let’s head out together, Baeloth.  We have a job to do.
BAELOTH: <Baeloth blows a kiss to the coliseum.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Stay safe, my baby!  Daddy’s coming back for you soon!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NEERA: Well, we just discovered what this psychopath’s heart looks like.  I’m glad he ain’t a dad!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: <Baeloth smiles and winks at Neera.>
<END DIALOG.>
If the Party Didn’t Wait for Baeloth in the Thayan Arena - Vicross’s Estate
BAELOTH: If we're to wait here, I might begin a brand-new business... (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: So I did!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: I left you alone for -five minutes- and -this- is what happens?!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: The least you could have done was -wait- for me!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
We didn’t know how long we’d be waiting, Baeloth.  It isn’t like Vicross is just gonna keel over because we want her to, and waiting gives her more time to prepare.
BAELOTH: Excuses, excuses.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: But I exaggerate.  All is forgiven, my friends!
What did you scheme up -this- time, Baeloth?
BAELOTH: Despite my darling enterprise of the Black Pits perishing by those whose name shant be said, I contain a cadre of contacts.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: I simply donated to Dennaton some names and locations of certain slavers and let Dennaton do his dirty work.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: I could see myself getting cozy in the Thayan coliseum - after enough time elapsed.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Worry not, my wandering warrior!  I’m not about to abandon my Bhaalspawn buddy to set up shop here!
Are you trying to get revenge on Najim, your old genie servant?
BAELOTH: <Baeloth sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Revenge?  No.  Reparations?  Yes.
BAELOTH: Given enough time, that noodle-headed Najim will bumble about and cause himself some trouble.  I -rescued- him from his previous master, but that’s another tale.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: He hid some slaves who outwitted me, but he can’t hide from me.  Technically, he never left my service.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: I have bigger fish to fry than trying to settle a score with him now.  Wait awhile, call upon some contacts, and he’ll feel just how hard I can squeeze his balls from across time and space!
That is NOT an image I want to remember!
BAELOTH: It isn’t Telekinesis, I assure you!
What if I told you to leave, Baeloth?
BAELOTH: Ooh, hoo hoo!  What wonderful words!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: But I appeal your adjudication!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: My beloved Black Pits are my pride and joy, but being part of battles between Bhaalspawn is by -far- better!
Fine, fine.  You can stay.
BAELOTH: Your sentence is like a soothing song to my soul!
Baeloth, it’s time to go.  You clearly love this new arena too much for me to trust you to focus on the task at hand.
BAELOTH: What will happen to me, Baeloth Barrityl, Showman of Showmen, Entertainer of Entertainers? (from here)
Sorry I set you off.  You can stay if you want.
BAELOTH: Your sentence is like a soothing song to my soul!
Leave.  The Thayan arena is clearly your dream, anyway.
BAELOTH: Enough! Baeloth the Entertainer goes ELSEWHERE.  (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Good day.  (from here)
<End Dialog.  Baeloth warps out of the game world, dropping all plot items.>
Let’s head out together, Baeloth.  We have a job to do.
BAELOTH: <Baeloth blows a kiss to the coliseum.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Stay safe, my baby!  Daddy’s coming back for you soon!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NEERA: Well, we just discovered what this psychopath’s heart looks like.  I’m glad he ain’t a dad!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: <Baeloth smiles and winks at Neera.>
<END DIALOG.>
ToB: BATTLEMASTER BAELOTH - INQUIRE WITHIN JOURNAL ENTRIES
Phase 1: Baeloth meets with Szass Tam and finishes dialog
JOURNAL: “Baeloth and the Red Wizard Szass Tam seem to have met before I arrived.  Baeloth loves this Thayan arena so much that he wants to -work- here, probably to scheme about taking it over and making it into his newest Black Pits!
I don’t know entirely what to think.  It isn’t like I can easily -stop- Baeloth from pursuing this dream!
Baeloth has asked me to wait a little while to talk with those in charge of this arena.”
Phase 2a: Baeloth finishes talking with Dennaton (Party is in Thayan Arena)
JOURNAL: “We waited for Baeloth to return to us.  Apparently, he’s schemed his way into working with Dennaton after he’s done venturing with me.
Baeloth is resourceful.  That’s for sure!”
<Party gets 5000 quest EXP each.>
Phase 2b: Baeloth finishes talking with Dennaton (Party is in Vicross Estate)
JOURNAL: “We didn’t wait for Baeloth to finish meeting with the Red Wizards before heading to the Vicross Estate.  He still had enough time to finish dealing with them.
Apparently, he’s schemed his way into working with Dennaton after he’s done venturing with me.
Baeloth is resourceful.  That’s for sure!”
<Party gets 5000 quest EXP each.>
ToB: HULL’S HOMECOMING
This quest becomes available once the ToB world map becomes available.  Hull initiates this quest with this dialog when the party is out of combat.
This quest has 2 ways to solve it - visit Sister Garlena at Watcher’s Keep or, if playing on BGT or EET, return to Candlekeep and meet with Tethtoril.  Visiting Tethtoril in person grants an additional scene with him.
Hull’s Initiation Dialog for Hull’s Homecoming
HULL: Kid, I know the fate of the world may be at stake here, but I would like for us to talk to Tethtoril in Candlekeep and find out what else we can about what’s to come.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I know that’s probably a long way to go, kid, but if it’s too far, I heard there’s a place along the sea called Watcher’s Keep south of Athkatla where some Helmite priests dwell.  They could send him a message pretty fast.
Why Watcher’s Keep?
HULL: I’m pretty sure I know how to get there from here.  Besides, any priest powerful enough to seal away some major demons should be able to deliver a message.
What do you hope to gain from contacting Candlekeep?
HULL: Guidance, kid.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And some god-slaying weapons they kept sealed away for a time such as this.  If they’re there.
I’ll consider it, Hull.
HULL: Alright.  Thanks, kid.  <END DIALOG.>
Phase 1: Visiting Sister Garlena Outside Watcher’s Keep
NOTE: Append this to her dialog if Hull is in the party and the party hasn’t already visited Tethtoril in Candlekeep.
My friend Hull here would like you to send a message.
HULL: Greetings, m’lady.  You can call me Hull.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GARLENA: <Sister Garlena turns to Hull and nods.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: With all this talk about Bhaalspawn and the possible return of Bhaal, Lord of Murder, I wanted to send a message to a friend and mentor at home back in Candlekeep.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: His name is Tethtoril, by the way.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: This is the message.  Ready?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GARLENA: <Sister Garlena nods.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Alaundo’s prophecy about Bhaal’s imminent return is coming true now.  Gorion’s Ward and Imoen are Bhaalspawn.  What help can Candlekeep give?  Love, Hull.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<A moment passes quietly and Hull looks around, confused.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: So now what?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GARLENA: <Sister Garlena gives Hull a sign to wait.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GARLENA: Hull, Tethtoril has replied with this message.  Ahem.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GARLENA: Hull, Imoen, <CHARNAME>...  Remember Alaundo’s prophecies, for they are truth.  That’s all I can do now.  Visit me in Candlekeep if you can.  Respectfully, Tethtoril.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GARLENA: Hull, I get the feeling that wasn’t the answer you wanted, but at least you have it now.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You’re right, m’lady.  Thanks anyway.
<The party gets 15,000 quest EXP each.>
Phase 2: Talking with Tethtoril in Candlekeep (BGT or EET Only) - Hull in the Party
TETHTORIL: <Tethtoril looks over your group.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Imoen is in the party.>
TETHTORIL: Imoen, welcome back young one!  It is good to see you again!  My how you have grown!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: <Imoen blushes slightly.>  Thanks Tethtoril, but we’re here on business.  There isn’t much you could teach me about magic.  Maybe one day I’ll teach -you- some!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: <Imoen smiles and winks at Tethtoril.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TETHTORIL: <Tethtoril smiles and nods to Imoen.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party.>
TETHTORIL: Hull, I know we didn’t talk much while you were on duty here, but I’m glad you’re back.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thanks.  I know this wasn’t the sort of reunion I expected we’d have when I left Candlekeep to escort Gorion’s kid around the world.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Sarevok is in the party.>
TETHTORIL: You!  You look... like Sarevok!  What are you doing here?!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull and Sarevok are in the party.>
HULL: It’s a long story.  Don’t worry, Tethtoril.  We’ve got him on a -tight leash.-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SAREVOK: <Sarevok glances at Tethtoril and Hull, clearly unamused.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull isn’t in the party but Sarevok is.>
SAREVOK: I am not here to cause you violence, old man.  Death could not stop my destiny!  I am here with <CHARNAME> so my <PRO_BROTHERSISTER> may gain what <PRO_HESHE> needs and we may leave!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TETHTORIL: I... see.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<End Conditional for Sarevok & Hull being in party.>
<If Baeloth is in the party.>
TETHTORIL: And this Drow?  What is he doing here?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Worry not, my wizardly warden!  We are merely making a delightful detour before we continue in the grandest battle of them all - godling against godling and brother against brother in a drama like no other!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-
TETHTORIL: We’ll be watching you, drow.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Good!  Good!  This way I can sell snacks and if an army of angels and a drove of demons clash at Candlekeep!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TETHTORIL: <Tethtoril sighs and shakes his head, shrugging.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TETHTORIL: And <CHARNAME>!  Welcome back!  You’ve grown so much since Gorion let me hold you in my arms when you were but a small child!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If the party talked with Sister Garlena and had her send Tethtoril a message.>
TETHTORIL: And thank you for your message.  I’m glad you’ve come.  I have something for you just as I promised.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TETHTORIL: Now, then.  Let’s discuss the purpose of your visit.
Tethtoril, I’m here to get whatever aid I can get from Candlekeep.  We are now in the days of the fulfillment of Alaundo’s prophecy about the Lord of Murder returning and I’m unsure how much more time we have left.
TETHTORIL: I... I did not realize it was -that- dire, <CHARNAME>.  But I know that the world has changed much since Gorion escorted you outside our walls.  You’ve changed too beyond getting older and taller.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TETHTORIL: Fortunately for you, I felt inspired to reread Alaundo’s prophecies.  I have studied them extensively... and yet I am sorry to say I know nothing more for certain than I did before you left.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TETHTORIL: Even Elminster himself was discouraged to hear that Alaundo’s prophecies seemed like riddles before they happened but were quite clear in hindsight.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TETHTORIL: But I did unearth some arcana that I believe will aid you.
Wait!  Is Elminster here in Candlekeep?
TETHTORIL: Yes, <CHARNAME>, he was.  He still may be.  I last heard he was in the inner library.
What would Elminster be doing in Candlekeep now?
TETHTORIL: He is likely doing the same as you, <CHARNAME>.  He too wants to be prepared for the fulfillment of Alaundo’s prophecies.
Explain, Tethtoril.  The fate of the world may depend on it!
TETHTORIL: Yes, <CHARNAME>.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TETHTORIL: Alaundo has one artifact associated with him, Alaundo’s Loop.  I found this in a vault here in Candlekeep.  Whether it is a replica or the original, I cannot say, but Alaundo’s Loop is said to hold all of eternity within it, or at least be able to tap its power.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TETHTORIL: Take this and use it well.
<The party receives Alaundo’s Loop.>
<The party also receives 30,000 quest EXP each if they didn’t have Garlena send a message to Tethtoril or only 15,000 quest EXP each if they did.>
What?  No long explanation about this item, warnings against misuse, and telling me its intricate history?
TETHTORIL: Oh, <CHARNAME>, you should know better than that.  I was not always so long-winded toward you.  Besides, time is of the essence now!
You are one of the greatest sages still living in Candlekeep!  How can you not tell if this is a replica?
TETHTORIL: Oh, <CHARNAME>, you flatter me with your compliment, but Alaundo’s Loop is -quite- obscure of an artifact.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TETHTORIL: I have found only a scant two sources to even -mention- this item.  There have been rumors that Khelben Blackstaff holds the original in his possession.
What was this about Candlekeep’s vault?
TETHTORIL: Did Gorion not tell you?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TETHTORIL: No, by your expression and your reaction, <CHARNAME>, he never did.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TETHTORIL: Candlekeep holds certain important objects in extraplanar spaces.  Even knowledge of these vaults is highly secretive, and where these vaults are is about an equal secret.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TETHTORIL: But <CHARNAME>, the vast majority of the items in these vaults are original copies of rare books such as the prophecies of Alaundo.  We have military guards here, yes, but we are not a military outpost and we do not aim to keep items of great military value here any more than is wise.  What I gave you was the only item of worth to you in these vaults.
<If Hull is in the party.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Candlekeep isn’t a military outpost?  Yeah, sounds about right.
That’s all for now.  Thanks, Tethtoril.
TETHTORIL: And thank you, <CHARNAME>, for seeing me.  Our brief visit has been like medicine for my soul.  I believe Gorion would be pleased to learn that you, his adopted child, are so close to fulfilling your destiny.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TETHTORIL: Just be careful <CHARNAME> that your murderous heritage does not overwhelm you.  I and the others here will be praying for you to act wisely, as well as for your success and safety.
ToB: HULL’S HOMECOMING JOURNAL ENTRIES
Phase 1: Before Visiting Sister Garlena Outside Watcher’s Keep
JOURNAL: “Hull, a former guard from Candlekeep, our home, seeks whatever help he can get from Tethtoril of Candlekeep.
He would prefer we visit Tethtoril in Candlekeep in person if we can, but also mentioned that Sister Garlena around Watcher’s Keep would likely send him a message.”
Phase 2: After Sending a Message via Sister Garlena Outside Watcher’s Keep
JOURNAL: “Hull, a former guard from Candlekeep, our home, seeks whatever help he can get from Tethtoril of Candlekeep.
Hull had Sister Garlena send Tethtoril a message.  Tethtoril’s answer was generally unhelpful, but he said to visit him in person in Candlekeep if we could.”
Phase 3: After Visiting Tethtoril in Person in Candlekeep
JOURNAL: “Hull, a former guard from Candlekeep, our home, seeks whatever help he can get from Tethtoril of Candlekeep.
We visited Tethtoril in person in Candlekeep and he gave us Alaundo’s Loop, an item said to contain all of eternity within it.”
ToB: CANDLEKEEP RETURN
Information in this section is in addition to Hull’s Homecoming.
Elminster - Main Library
ELMINSTER: Ah, <CHARNAME>, I knew you would come.  Welcome home - however briefly.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Sandrah is in the party.>
SANDRAH: Father!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: <Elminster smiles and winks at Sandrah.>  Yes, my child, we meet again before the entire fulfillment of Alaundo’s prophecy.  Just remember what I have taught you.  Remember as well that this is your story, as well as the story of those around you.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Volo is in the party.>
ELMINSTER: And welcome back to you, Volo, my friend!  I sometimes wish the world would slow down enough to allow us time to enjoy reading and writing about it instead of facing new disasters every week!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Ah, my friend!  I am -so glad- we can finally talk again like this!  I had missed our friendly chats!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: Yes, Volo.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: <Elminster sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: That which we discussed when I called you away so urgently has come to pass.  The Bhaalspawn uprisings have begun.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Drizzt is in the party.>
ELMINSTER: Drizzt Do’Urden, a reformed drow.  I thank you that you have graced us with your presence.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: Elminster, the Sage of Shadowdale!  What an honor it is to finally meet you, sir!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: There is much to do, Drizzt, and we can talk more later, after this Bhaalspawn Saga has ended.  Until then, please keep up the good work of aiding <CHARNAME> fulfill <PRO_HISHER> destiny!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: I will, sir, to the best of my ability!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: <Elminster smiles and nods.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: Welcome back, sir!  Thanks for never giving me too much to carry!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: <Elminster smiles at Hull and winks.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: Welcome to your homecoming, Hull.  I am glad you were freed from this gilded cage that you called Candlekeep.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: It took a tragedy, but I got the point!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: <Elminster nods.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Imoen is in the party.>
ELMINSTER: Imoen, still looking as cheerful as she did the day I last saw her in Candlekeep.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: <Imoen smiles and blushes.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: Aw.  Thanks!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: Whatever childhood wiles inspired you to want to keep your secrets from the guards that day, I obliged out of respect.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: Wait!  What?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: “Spot Imoen.”  Remember, Hull?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Probably helping Winthrop live out his fantasy of being the world’s fattest man.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: <Imoen snickers.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<Regardless of whether Hull or/and Imoen were in the party.>
<If Sarevok is in the party.>
ELMINSTER: Sarevok, your presence here now seems like the definition of irony.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SAREVOK: Say what you will, old man.  Clawing my way out of the hells was but a -taste- of things to come!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: It seems to have given you a new perspective.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SAREVOK: True, old man.  I can see clearly now that which I set in motion is being fulfilled!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: -You- set in motion?  In one sense, that is correct, but you were also a pawn of prophecy.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SAREVOK: I see your point.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: Was your scheming worth it, knowing that any flaw in it could bring about a swift and painful downfall?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SAREVOK: Of course, old man!  You’re the Favored of a goddess yourself!  How can you -not- say ascension to divinity is worthwhile?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: I have great power, yes, but it comes with great responsibility.  Your ascension - had it worked - would have propelled you into great power, but also great politics.  You would have been like a genie being stuck in a bigger bottle.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SAREVOK: <Sarevok silently glares at Elminster.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: What is past is past.  You still have your life and that is worth -far- more than you know.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Baeloth is in the party.>
BAELOTH: What?  No eulogy for me from the epicurious Elminster himself?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: Baeloth Barrityl, a drow who would set the world ablaze and set nation against nation if he believed it would make for an amply entertaining show for the survivors.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: I would be a poor practitioner of my profession if I did not.  (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: After all, the realms are rife with strife!  I may as well find fun and funds in the fury!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: And what if you were no longer Baeloth the Entertainer but simply Baeloth Barrityl the Drow?  What if the crowds would no longer flock to you and no one wanted your brand of entertainment?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: What a woeful wish that would be!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: I would still find ways to entertain myself.  Perhaps live a quiet life if that’s all there was for me.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: If not, stirring up strife or waging wars for my amusement may make me merry many days.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: I suspected no less from you.  I am not at all surprised.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: <Baeloth sighs.>  (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Trinden is in the party.>
ELMINSTER: Ah, and Trinden Felsad, our otherworldly visitor who came here to learn how to be a god.  I am Elminster Aumar, Sage of Shadowdale and a man of many talents.  My patron deity Mystra, Goddess of Magic, prepared me for your arrival, Trinden.  Welcome.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: <Trinden bows deeply toward Elminster with great reverence.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: I appreciate such a warm welcome.  I was not aware of others who were so concerned about my arrival.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: For most visitors that would be true; however, we are amidst a crisis of godlings fighting each other for the right to be the last one standing - or living, as the case may be.  The fact that you are debatably of a deific power level is something that I will certainly notice.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: And do not be concerned about your plane’s history and your life story.  Talk to Tethtoril downstairs.  He will ensure copies of your “Metaphysical Revolution” books are kept safely here for generations.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: Gracious.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: Here is a question for you, Trinden.  When you are no longer seeking training, no longer trying to be divine, who will you be?  Does knowing that you have accomplished far more than even full dragons in centuries of life be enough, or will you strive to be head of the social circles even among the planes and the powers?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: The -point- of power is to be in charge and use it well!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: As someone who has served my mistress Mystra well and become something like a god myself, there is more responsibility at this level than you know, and surely more responsibility than freedom!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: As a being this powerful, you can easily and frequently see the worst of all creation.  Politics is the order of the day - and every day - and you are somewhat prepared, Trinden.  There are fewer trump cards than in the mortal realm when faced with mutually assured destruction or a deity who simply outranks you telling you what to do.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: I thank you, sir, for your assistance.  Why were you not sent to escort me as a guide?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: You are an advisor to <CHARNAME> just as I am on occasion an advisor to you, Trinden.  <CHARNAME> and you have a closer rank, whereas I am often considered a figurehead or a mouthpiece.  I do little fighting myself - not because I am feeble, but because of my office.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: And experience is a tutor like no other.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: Gracious.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: But now I must turn my attention away to <CHARNAME> who has sought me out at an auspicious time.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: Well, <CHARNAME>, we meet again at last.  I assume you came because you have questions I can answer.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: <CHARNAME>, I can answer some of your questions about your past, your present, and your future.
Let’s talk about my past since you seem to know so much.
ELMINSTER: What do you wish to know?
Since you were so close, why did you not save Gorion from Sarevok?
<If Sarevok is in the party.>
SAREVOK: <Sarevok looks smugly at <CHARNAME>.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: <CHARNAME>, it was not my place.  Gorion chose to sacrifice himself and be remembered as a hero.  He knew that his mortal life was near its end and would rather be remembered that way than die old and frail on a bed, mostly forgotten.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: Also, as you should be able to imagine, I am a man of many obligations.  I had important business to handle before then, and even though Gorion and I were friends, it was simply wise for me to handle that then.
Why did Gorion not just teleport us to safety and have us meet somewhere?
ELMINSTER: <Elminster smiles, as if he had awaited this question for ages.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: I am convinced that, in his haste to leave Candlekeep for your safety, he either did not prepare it or was afraid it would endanger you even moreso.  He also did not want to draw undue attention to you two, for a wizard warping in is simultaneously frightening and a challenge to many.
What do you mean?
ELMINSTER: Did you not realize that teleportation might have sent you into a volcano or deep beneath the sea somewhere?  Did you not realize that, among the wrong crowd, he -still- would have died - and likely you with him - because of many fools who believed they could kill a wizard of that caliber simply because he was there?
Did Gorion raise me -because- I was a Bhaalspawn?
ELMINSTER: <Elminster sighs a painful sigh, knowing what he is about to say.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: Yes.  Gorion specifically raised Imoen and you, <CHARNAME>, because he and I each knew you two were Bhaalspawn.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: If not for this then, your lives would have been -quite- different outside of Candlekeep.
Was your plan then to raise some pet Bhaalspawn to fight a war for you?
ELMINSTER: <Elminster sighs and shakes his head.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: <CHARNAME>, when you put it that way, it sounds so harsh.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: The essence of it is correct.  Gorion and I planned to raise Imoen and you as Harpers to be ready to win this Bhaalspawn war we now face, and, if the opportunity presented itself, replace Bhaal as a god but as a force for righteousness and not wickedness.
What did you intend to meet Gorion about when we fled Candlekeep?
ELMINSTER: That was meant to be your initiation into the Harpers and a civil discussion and preparation about your Bhaalish heritage and warnings to resist it.  By now, that meeting’s purpose is obsolete.
If being inducted into the Harpers and working for them to prepare the world for this Bhaalspawn crisis was my original intent, why did no one else ever tell me?
ELMINSTER: Gorion led you to Harpers Khalid and Jaheira, did he not?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: But I understand your point, <CHARNAME>.  There were miscommunications and misunderstandings.  Your heritage was a secret that had to be -kept- a secret until revealed to you at the right time which has since passed.  To the extent this was my fault, I apologize.
Why not just leave me a note telling me I was a Bhaalspawn and what to do next?
ELMINSTER: <Elminster smiles a proud smile.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: <CHARNAME>, in hindsight, you -think- you would have been able to accept it and act upon the instructions given to you.  In truth, would you have believed this report, even if Gorion were to tell you?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: Even if you had a perfect understanding of what was happening, who else would believe you and treat you kindly for it?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: Imagine you were in Winthrop’s tavern as a child, <CHARNAME>, and some stranger comes up to you and claims to be the son of Bhaal, the dead God of Murder.  He would be met with hostility, or laughter, or disbelief, or awkward suspicion.  Sarevok’s forces would also be looking for him with murderous intent.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Sarevok is in the party.>
SAREVOK: <Sarevok flashes Elminster and <CHARNAME> a sinister smile.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: No, <CHARNAME>, your heritage was and is dangerous and something best handled in the company of trustworthy counselors - ones who would advise you well on how to embrace the good in you while also allowing you enough freedom to live your life, instead of trying to control you like a puppet.
Since Bhaal was my birth father and Gorion was my foster father, who is or was my birth mother?
ELMINSTER: <Elminster gives you a pained expression.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: <CHARNAME>, if you do not already know, then persist in fulfilling your destiny and you -shall- know.
Let’s talk about something else.
ELMINSTER: <Elminster nods.>  <RETURN TO MAIN TOPICS FOR THIS DIALOG TREE.>
There are certain things we should discuss about the present.
ELMINSTER: <Elminster nods.>
What are you doing here now?
ELMINSTER: I suspect the same as you - research.  We know Alaundo’s prophecies regarding Bhaalspawn are coming to pass, and some have already.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: Many prophecies are discouragingly puzzling to understand before they unfold, even if they are clear in hindsight.
Tell me what you can about the Bhaalspawn.
ELMINSTER: <CHARNAME>, now is the time for war.  The essence of Bhaal, the slain Lord of Murder, cries out for vengeance from beyond the grave.  Like a fish caught on a fishhook and taken from the water, it squirms and does everything in its power to be released and live the life it once did.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: Though this matter is past, Bhaal foresaw his death and sired a ‘score of mortal progeny’ as Alaundo put it.  Bhaal was wise and cunning enough to sow the seeds for his return, for even in death, he would not be stopped!  Indeed, life must exist for it to die or be murdered - that is, taken unjustly by force!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: Each of those seeds of Bhaal became a Bhaalspawn of varying power, like you <CHARNAME>, though I already know that you know this is your heritage - and in one sense, your birthright.  Whether it was a curse or a blessing to the one being born is another matter.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: This leads us to the present day where the Bhaalspawn are living out the divine, murderous nature implanted in them by their father.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: It should come as no surprise to you, <CHARNAME>, that something fulfilling its nature is one of the easiest things in all of creation.  There is no major surprise when a cow moos, or a wolf acts like a wolf, nor if a drunkard acts drunk.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: Hey!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<Regardless of whether Hull is in the party.>
ELMINSTER: In the same way, <CHARNAME>, certain agents of Bhaal are plotting for his return and doing everything in their power to ensure it happens - like Sarevok once did.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Sarevok is in the party.>
SAREVOK: <Sarevok looks at Elminster with mixed emotion, mostly negative.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<Regardless of whether Sarevok is in the party.>
ELMINSTER: <CHARNAME>, regardless of what happens, now and for a short while provides you a unique opportunity to help decide the fate of the world on a grand scale - just like in many stories Gorion read you.
Why is it only recently that the Bhaalspawn have gone on a murderous rampage?
ELMINSTER: Now more than ever, the essence of Bhaal longs to return to its divine throne personified in one of its agents.  What Sarevok helped set in motion others have continued.  With every Bhaalspawn dead, more and more of Bhaal’s essence coalesces, and the stronger the call of Bhaal becomes to return.
What happens if I try to stay out of this Bhaalspawn war?
ELMINSTER: <Elminster looks at you in a tone that’s part-glare, part-frustration, part-urge.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: <CHARNAME>, if you try to remain idle at this time, you -will- regret it!  More Bhaalspawn die by the moment, and every death of theirs brings the world that much closer to the birth of a new god and new era!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: <CHARNAME>, this is the time to -fight- and -finish- the fight!  For if you remain idle, the forces that seek to revive Bhaal -will- consume you!
Did you arrange this meeting?
ELMINSTER: “Arrange” is too strong of a word, <CHARNAME>.  I simply -allowed- for the possibility of its happening and -positioned- myself to be ready for it if it occurred.
Who or what do you say I am?
ELMINSTER: <Elminster smiles and winks at you.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: You are a free-willed being made powerful in part through your heritage as an offspring of the dead god Bhaal but also from your experiences venturing throughout the realms and the planes.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: You are at a turning point in our world’s history, <CHARNAME>.  Like me, you have the power to decide certain things with -tremendous- consequences!
Do you consider me your equal?
ELMINSTER: <Elminster’s face twists into an expression of discomfort.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: <CHARNAME>, I’ll -not- answer that!  For these words, even if they are meant as an earnest curiosity, carry the strong winds of arrogance.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: You, <CHARNAME>, are the child of Bhaal, the Lord of Murder and perhaps eligible for ascension to godhood.  I am Mystra’s Chosen and a renowned sage and wizard throughout the realms.  Though we may seem to be in the same league, and we may be peers in some sense, our destinies are incomparable.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: For regardless if I claim we are equals or one of us is superior to the other, there may swell in you a sense of arrogance if you believe you are or should be superior to me.  You may also wonder how you could become superior to me if you are not, and I’ll not indulge in that sort of attitude.
Are you concerned about what Volo has written of you?
ELMINSTER: <Elminster shakes his head and sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: I am -well aware- of Volo’s tendency to major on the minor details or to exaggerate for the sake of attention or sales.  What is our dear author Volo up to this time, <CHARNAME>?  Does he claim me to be a Calimshite, or that he has ‘accidentally’ found a way to stop aging?  Perhaps he’s claiming to be the chosen of an obscure deity!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Volo is in the party.>
ELMINSTER: <Elminster looks directly at Volo and gives him a knowing wink.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: Alas, while I have on occasion guided Volo or treated him as a friend, I have learned that, while he is certainly well-traveled, he is an entertainer much more than a chronicler or a historian as he has claimed.
Let’s talk about something else.
ELMINSTER: <Elminster nods.>  <RETURN TO MAIN TOPICS FOR THIS DIALOG TREE.>
What sort of future do you see?
ELMINSTER: What do you want to know?
What can you tell me of my destiny?
ELMINSTER: Did not the Solar Angel already tell you that you have a choice in how you behave, and how choosing to embrace your murderous nature will corrupt you into the image of the Lord of Murder?  Did not this angel also encourage you to do what you could to reject your vile nature and choose to put on a repentant nature like a robe with which Gorion would be proud?  Did not this angel furthermore tell you that your answers to the questions of this angel would be held to divine levels of scrutiny?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: Here and now, <CHARNAME>, you must choose if you wish to be hunted forever as a villain or remembered fondly as a hero.
What happens if Bhaal returns?
ELMINSTER: <CHARNAME>, I cannot say - not because I am ignorant - but because this is something I do not wish to speak into existence by chance.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: In short, Faerun - and by extension the planar multiverse - would suffer -far- more than they did during the Time of Troubles.
What if Bhaal’s reemergence is nowhere near as devastating as you believed?
ELMINSTER: <CHARNAME>, Bhaal’s reemergence logically means -your death!-  Do you believe me so unfeeling that I would not mourn for you were this to happen?
Will I ascend to divinity?
ELMINSTER: I have already felt the essence of Bhaal within you, <CHARNAME>, seeking to return to its ‘rightful’ divine place.  Though Bhaal was struck dead as a mortal during the Time of Troubles, Bhaal’s essence is, in itself, divine.  Your mortal nature is separate from Bhaal’s murderous nature, which is why you may choose to act righteously - which I urge you to do!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: But to answer your question <CHARNAME>, you may be presented with that opportunity.  Prepare for that possibility.  Ascension is a choice.
What do you plan to do and where do you plan to go after you finish in Candlekeep?
ELMINSTER: <Elminster smiles and winks at you.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: That is my business, <CHARNAME>.  If fate wills it, you will also be part of it.
Let’s talk about something else.
ELMINSTER: <Elminster nods.>  <RETURN TO MAIN TOPICS FOR THIS DIALOG TREE.>
What can you tell me about how you operate?
ELMINSTER: Surely you understand, <CHARNAME>, that while I have free will, I am a man of many attachments and obligations - to my patron deity Mystra as her Chosen, to my organization the Harpers as a high-ranking member and an administrator, and to this world and the planes to ensure a certain order about them remains.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: <CHARNAME>, please do not misunderstand my previous point as being hostile nor ambivalent toward you.  It simply means that I am positioned to work on a scale where most mortals never do.  As the saying goes, “With power comes responsibility.”  
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: It also means that many are mistaken if they truly believe they should merely wait for someone more powerful than they - like me - to suddenly arrive and solve their problems.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: As an agent of Mystra and subject to the overdeity Ao - as are we all - there is a limit to the amount of direct help I can provide, even to you, my friend.  Direct conflict among deities and their high-ranking members is -highly- discouraged, lest the world face another disciplinary period for the divine ranks like what happened during the Time of Troubles when divinity walked the planes as mortals and, among other things, Cyric killed Bhaal and stole his portfolio as Lord of Murder.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: As an aside, the cause of the Time of Troubles was something else, but I provide that as a recent example of how Ao -will- intervene substantially in certain affairs.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: But when it comes to less overt, less direct help, there is -plenty- more I can do - and have done - to help you.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: Perhaps in your travels you found some items that seemed -very- conveniently placed - a Ring of Protection here, a diamond there, an Ankheg Plate in a field, or some ammunition elsewhere.  Surely, -anyone- could have placed them there and anyone -could- have found them; however, in times like these, consider that I knew your destiny from the start and tried guiding you from afar.
Since Ao knows what’s going on, why not just kill off or nullify all the evil deities to prevent the spread of evil throughout Faerun?
ELMINSTER: <CHARNAME>, you and I have thought alike on this point.  It is not my place to publicly protest this matter, even as Mystra’s Chosen.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: I suspect that even destroying all evil that exists across the planes in an instant would still cause new evil to arise in a different form in short order.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: There is also the question about whether genocide against all evil is inherently evil, even if it those executing this operation are, to some degree, operating in preemptive self-defense.
Thanks for your discrete help.
ELMINSTER: And you are welcome!
May we travel together?
ELMINSTER: <Elminster smiles a knowing smile at you and winks.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: That is a question I have anticipated being asked many times, and the answer is normally no, as it is for you at this time.  Though our paths crossed this time, <CHARNAME>, it is something that I know will not happen often.  You have your destiny to fulfill and I have mine.
What items can you give me to help me fulfill my destiny?
ELMINSTER: <Elminster smiles a cheery smile.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: I can offer you this, <CHARNAME>.  It is something of great value to you - if you allow it to be.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: <Elminster pulls out a piece of parchment from one of his robe’s many pockets and quickly writes a note.  He hands it to you with a knowing smile and wink.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<The party gains Elminster’s Handwritten Note to <CHARNAME>.>
ELMINSTER: It is not a Sphere of Annihilation, a Staff of the Magi, nor a Scroll of Wish, but it -is- something that few others have and something that your father Gorion had, a handwritten note from me to help you and guide you on your way.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: It would be worth a -fortune- to the right collector, and if we were not already in Candlekeep, <CHARNAME>, I dare say it would pay your admittance fee!
What are your thoughts on romance?
ELMINSTER: <Elminster smiles widely and offers a slight chuckle.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: <CHARNAME>, if you refer to romance for yourself, then that is -far- more your choice than mine!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: If you inquire about romance with me, know that I am happily taken by Mystra, my patron, as well as by my work and perhaps some other flame.  Thus, I must respectfully decline.
[After the First Time] That’s all for now.
Very well, <CHARNAME>.  We may meet again.  <END DIALOG.>
[First Time] That’s all for now.
NOTE: Elminster only questions <CHARNAME> the first time <CHARNAME> tries ending the conversation, not on subsequent conversation ends.  After the player responds to each question, Elminster moves onto the next one until the end.
ELMINSTER: <CHARNAME>, before you leave, I have questions for -you.-  I’ll only ask these once, and you need not answer, but the answers are mostly for your benefit.  Assume I already know how you will respond.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: First, though you have returned to your adopted home, you have traveled far and overcome many troubles.  What do you believe is your primary course of success so far?
My allies.
ELMINSTER: <Elminster nods.>
My Bhaalspawn heritage.
ELMINSTER: <Elminster nods.>
My charm or persuasiveness.
ELMINSTER: <Elminster nods.>
My combat ability.
ELMINSTER: <Elminster nods.>
My destiny and its fulfillment.
ELMINSTER: <Elminster nods.>
My determination.
ELMINSTER: <Elminster nods.>
ELMINSTER: <Elminster nods.>
ELMINSTER: <Elminster nods.>
My patience.
ELMINSTER: <Elminster nods.>
My patron deity or my faith.
ELMINSTER: <Elminster nods.>
My upbringing with Gorion and Candlekeep.
ELMINSTER: <Elminster nods.>
My wits.
ELMINSTER: <Elminster nods.>
You, Elminster.
ELMINSTER: <Elminster smiles and winks.>
Something else.
ELMINSTER: <Elminster nods.>
I prefer not to answer that question.
ELMINSTER: <Elminster nods.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: Second, <CHARNAME>, what do you now think of your Bhaalish heritage?
I -eagerly- embrace my birthright!
ELMINSTER: <Elminster’s face winces as he frowns.>
It’s been an occasional bother, but manageable.
ELMINSTER: <Elminster nods.>
It made me a target.
ELMINSTER: <Elminster nods.>
I never asked for this.
ELMINSTER: <Elminster smiles.>
It’s been like a stain on my spirit.
ELMINSTER: <Elminster smiles and winks.>
How I long to be rid of this curse!
ELMINSTER: <Elminster smiles and winks.>
Something else.
ELMINSTER: <Elminster nods.>
I prefer not to answer that question.
ELMINSTER: <Elminster nods.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: Finally, <CHARNAME>, if you could somehow relive your past from the day you left with Gorion knowing what you know now, would you?  Note that I do not ask this of you to offer you a means of traveling back in time.
Absolutely not!  I didn’t get this far just to start over!
ELMINSTER: <Elminster smiles and nods.>
No!  The past is better left in the past!
ELMINSTER: <Elminster nods.>
No.  I don’t want the possibility of even -worse- things happening!
ELMINSTER: <Elminster nods.>
Maybe.  It ultimately depends on details.
ELMINSTER: <Elminster shrugs and nods.>
Yes.  This way, I could warn Gorion and probably save his life.
ELMINSTER: <Elminster smiles and nods.>
Yes.  I have longed to travel with you, Elminster, and I wanted to do things -correctly- from the start!
ELMINSTER: <Elminster smiles and winks.>
Yes!  If I can, do I not have a duty to right the wrongs of my past?
ELMINSTER: <Elminster nods.>
Absolutely yes, and I have plans for how to improve things for this alternate timeline!
ELMINSTER: <Elminster nods.>
Something else.
ELMINSTER: <Elminster nods.>
I prefer not to answer that question.
ELMINSTER: <Elminster nods.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELMINSTER: Very well, then.  <CHARNAME>, I have prayed for your safety and that you will act wisely.  We may meet again.  <END DIALOG.>
<Display this dialog before Fuller’s usual dialog.>
FULLER: Kiddo, you’re back!  It’s like you barely left!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party.>
FULLER: And you too, Hull!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
FULLER: <Fuller and Hull give each other a strong, loud groan-filled bear hug!>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Yeah, Hull.  I missed you too.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: We’re on our way to save the world, or at least do something big with it!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
FULLER: Yeah?  Like what?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Let’s just say the pantheon might soon get some rearrangin’.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
FULLER: <Fuller looks at Hull incredulously.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But anyway, I’m glad we’re home again for a little while.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
FULLER: So am I, Hull!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Well, with the fate of the world hanging in the balance, it’s good to meet friends again!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
FULLER: <Fuller’s face quickly looks uncomfortable.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Don’t worry about it, Fuller!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
FULLER: <Fuller sighs, relieved.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But I recommend you get right with your patron deity just in case!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
FULLER: <Fuller sighs as he peers quizzically at Hull.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
FULLER: <Fuller takes a deep breath as if a bit surprised.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
FULLER: What brings ya home, kiddo?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<Pick one.>
I missed home.
WINTHROP: Homesickness?  I didn’t think anyone got homesick for Candlekeep, but I’m the wrong guy to ask.
FULLER: Curiosity can make people do strange things.
[If Hull is in the party] Hull here wanted to visit.
FULLER: Well, I’m glad to see you’re so courteous!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I also came home to brag about how adventuring through the dangers of the outside world made me stronger than you’ll ever be!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull flexes his muscles.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
FULLER: <Fuller rolls his eyes.>  Showoff.
It was on the way to where I was going next.
FULLER: Convenience?  Eh.  Alright.
Personal reasons.
FULLER: “A man’s only as great as his secrets,” some would say.
<Regardless of CHARNAME’s stated reasoning for visiting Fuller, continue with this dialog.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
FULLER: Still, <CHARNAME>, not much has changed around here since all that fuss with you here awhile ago.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
FULLER: Candlekeep is still the caged library it was years ago, just with different people and books inside.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
FULLER: And I’ve wondered why Candlekeep even -has- guards!  I think we’re mostly for show, and just bein’ here prevents a lotta people from doing petty theft or ‘accidentally’ casting something.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: I was thinkin’ the same thing!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<Continue with Fuller’s normal dialog.>
FULLER: But anyway, kid.  It’s good to see you again!  You’ve grown so much!  You probably have enough magic gear to stock your own store!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
FULLER: So, what do you wanna talk about?
<Append these dialog options to Fuller’s normal dialog tree.>
It turns out that the dead God of Murder Bhaal is my blood father.  Gorion knew it and hid me here.
FULLER: <Fuller looks at you, astounded!>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
FULLER: Well, doesn’t that just beat all?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
FULLER: If anyone else told me that, I’d probably laugh ‘em out of the room!  What’s that mean for you?
<Pick one.>
More than I care to talk about now.
FULLER: Yeah.  Makes sense.
Bhaal wants to live again, and his divine essence is making lots of Bhaalspawn - the blood offspring of Bhaal - kill each other.
FULLER: So -that’s- why you’re so tough!
Alaundo’s prophecy about the Lord of Murder is coming true.
FULLER: Those endlessly chanting robed guys outside were -right?-  That’s new!
I might soon become a god.
FULLER: I hope you’re a -good- god!  This world has too much suffering and lack already!
Get your things in order.  The world might end soon.
FULLER: It’s -that- bad, huh?  Better enjoy life while I can!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<Regardless, play the following text if Imoen is in the party.>
IMOEN: <CHARNAME>, should I tell him about my heritage?
IMOEN: Hey Fuller!  I’m also Bhaalspawn!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
FULLER: <Fuller’s face twists a moment as he tries to form words.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
FULLER: It makes sense now that Gorion would adopt you two.  I never thought he was much of a family man.  Too busy with sagely stuff.
IMOEN: <Imoen nods.>  I won’t then.
Your choice.
<Proceed as if CHARNAME said yes.>
[If the party has at least 5000G] Here, Fuller.  Have 5000 gold.  It’s for you or to share.
FULLER: <Fuller looks at you, amazed!>
<The party loses 5000G and Fuller gains that amount.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Baeloth is in the party.>
BAELOTH: What noble notions noodle through your noggin?  (from here)
Baeloth, your reaction is amusing!
BAELOTH: Let me entertain you! (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
FULLER: Y’know, kid, I take back everything embarrassing or mean the guard ever said to you or had you do.  Normally I wouldn’t accept it, but I’m pretty sure a monetary gift from a fellow member of Candlekeep for non-criminal reasons ain’t a bribe.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: Wow, kid!  I didn’t see -that- comin’!
What do you plan to do with the money?
FULLER: <Fuller scratches his chin with the backside of his hand.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
FULLER: I’m still debating.  Maybe it’s time to move on from Candlekeep.  I’ve been here for many years.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party.>
FULLER: Hull, when you’re done treating <CHARNAME> like you’re Gorion, let’s go see the world together!  You can teach me to fight like you!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: If I’m available.  We’ve been pretty busy lately.
[If the party has at least 5000G] Here, Fuller.  Have 5000 more gold.  Enjoy!
FULLER: <Fuller looks at you, again amazed!>
<The party loses 5000G and Fuller gains that amount.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Baeloth is in the party.>
BAELOTH: Augh... NOT AGAIN!! *gurgle*  (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
FULLER: You’re spectacular, kiddo!  Gorion raised you well!
<The party gains +1 reputation to a max of 18.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
FULLER: Guess I’ll hafta dream bigger now!  Hah!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Sarevok is in the party and Evil-aligned.>
SAREVOK: Your charity is a waste, <CHARNAME>!  The world yearns to burn and blood cries out to be spilled!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
FULLER: And who is this, <CHARNAME>?  Someone jealous that he feels robbed?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SAREVOK: You may know me as Koveras.  I visited Candlekeep many times to research the prophecies of Bhaal before the death of Sarevok.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SAREVOK: You are a weak man with small ambitions!  Living as a warrior whose greatest threat is a drunkard, a housecat, or his superior’s refusal to use rat poison is a slight to those who live and die by the sword!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party.>
SAREVOK: At least your fellow guardsman Hull here risked his life in battle!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thanks, I think.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<Regardless of Hull’s presence in the party.>
FULLER: <Fuller looks pained and demoralized a moment.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
FULLER: Point taken.  I’ll... consider what you said.
Let’s discuss something else.
FULLER: Sure thing, kiddo!  Thanks again!
What do you know about the prophecies of Alaundo?
FULLER: <Fuller shrugs.>  Go ask a librarian.  Tethtoril might know.
Anything notable change around here since I was framed?
FULLER: That asshole Ulraunt realized you were framed and pardoned you.  He was clearly pissed that someone had duped him.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
FULLER: If you can find something else new around here, kid, good for you.  Don’t look to Candlekeep to be a world leader in changing anything.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
FULLER: Candlekeep is like gravity:  Nothing changes unless some caster’s involved!
<Change his normal goodbye message to this.>
Time to go, Fuller.
FULLER: Good luck out there!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party - play only once.>
FULLER: And Hull, let me know if you ever want my help saving the world!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thanks, Fuller, but we’re busy taking on godspawn.  You are -not- prepared!  I’m not sure I am, either.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But, hey, I worked my way up to that and had some help!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
FULLER: <Fuller laughs.>  Alright.  Good luck out there!
Gatekeeper/Gatewarden (“Chief”)
GATEWARDEN: Well, well, well.  Look who we have here!  If it isn’t <CHARNAME>!  You look taller since you left with Gorion what seems like an eternity ago!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: <Hull turns to the Gatewarden and salutes.  The Gatewarden quickly returns the salute.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GATEWARDEN: And Hull!  You’re so... well-postured!  You’d surely beat -me- in a fight!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull snickers.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Imoen is in the party.>
GATEWARDEN: And you, Imoen!  That little girl we used to catch stealing our coins and food is now a full-grown woman!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: <Imoen smiles.>  Thanks!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Imoen is a Bard, a Mage, or a Sorcerer of any kit.>
GATEWARDEN: I can smell your spell components!  How you must’ve grown to be even more like Gorion!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: <Imoen blushes.>  Aw!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Volo is in the party.>
GATEWARDEN: You, Volo!  It’s felt so long since you’ve graced us with your presence!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GATEWARDEN: Last I heard, Elminster was inside the library.  I think you two want to talk!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Oh, -thank- you sir!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Sarevok is in the party.>
GATEWARDEN: And you... seem familiar somehow.  What was your name again?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SAREVOK: You would know me as Koveras.  I was once a frequent visitor to Candlekeep in the days before Sarevok’s demise.  I have been otherwise occupied since then.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GATEWARDEN: But I know you’re here for good reason, <CHARNAME>.  I’m sorry I can’t help you much.  You’ve -clearly- outgrown this place, but thanks for visiting us anyway!
<Append this dialog.>
I’m just stopping by.
GATEWARDEN: Curious about how little has changed?  Homesick?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GATEWARDEN: <He sighs and shrugs.>  Whatever the reason, <CHARNAME>, Candlekeep welcomes you.
[If Hull is in the party] Hull here wanted to visit.
GATEWARDEN: Homesick, eh?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: A bit, sir.  I mostly wanted to learn whatever we could about Alaundo’s prophecies.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GATEWARDEN: Hull, a scholar?  Wow, <CHARNAME>!  You’ve changed him!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Maybe, chief.  I’ve just had -plenty- of time to think about what matters most in life and make a real difference in the world when I wasn’t staring at walls or herding cats for days at a time.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Then, uh, trying to drink off the boredom and bad feelings I had because of it.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GATEWARDEN: Well, I don’t know much about Alaundo or his prophecies, but Tethtoril should.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thanks, Chief.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GATEWARDEN: You’re so strong now, Hull, that I should be calling -you- Chief!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: From one chief to another, hail!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GATEWARDEN: And other such weather.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GATEWARDEN: <The Gatewarden smiles and laughs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull also smiles and laughs.>
[If the party has 5000G+] Here, sir.  Have 5000 gold and improve security around Candlekeep.
<The party loses 5000G and the Gatewarden gains the same amount.>
GATEWARDEN: <The Gatewarden looks at you, wide-eyed, his jaw silently open.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GATEWARDEN: Thank you, <CHARNAME>!  I’m so surprised!  Why give me this?
<Pick one.>
I wanted to witness your reaction.
GATEWARDEN: You did, kiddo, and it was good!
I suffered through someone trying - and failing - to kill me around here.
GATEWARDEN: <The Gatewarden smiles uncomfortably.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GATEWARDEN: I’m sorry again for what happened.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GATEWARDEN: I can’t promise any improvements right now.  I’ll talk with the administrators in Candlekeep about improving things around here.
I was feeling generous.
GATEWARDEN: <The Gatewarden smiles.>  <CHARNAME>, the world needs more generous people like you.  I heard generosity means you have a good eye!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GATEWARDEN: <The Gatewarden playfully winks at you.>
It’s what Gorion would have wanted.
GATEWARDEN: That’s a touching sentiment.  Thank you, <CHARNAME>, for honoring his legacy like this!
I had a good feeling!
GATEWARDEN: And now I do too, kid!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GATEWARDEN: <The Gatewarden smiles and laughs happily at you.>
Keeper of the Portal
<Show this dialog before Keeper’s normal dialog.>
KEEPER: You look familiar.  <CHARNAME>, was it?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KEEPER: Yes.  Yes it was.
<If Hull is in the party.>
<Hull turns to the Keeper of the Portal and salutes.  The Keeper of the Portal quickly returns the salute.>
KEEPER: Yes, Hull.  I’ve not forgotten you.  You each look so... different.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull snickers.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: We’ve fought our way around the Sword Coast.  Of -course- we’re stronger!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KEEPER: <The Keeper of the Portal shakes his head.>  I do not envy your position.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Hmm?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KEEPER: Violence breeds violence... but we live in dangerous times.  Living and dying by the sword - yes, even along the Sword 
Coast - is to be expected.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You’re sounding just like Gorion!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KEEPER: I heard him say it first.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Trinden is also in the party.>
TRINDEN: It is true that violence can breed violence; however, violence solves -everything.-  Proper tactical use of violence is simply -necessary- in this world!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KEEPER: And we have a philosopher on the nature and effects of violence.  You aren’t the first to talk with me about this, and you probably won’t be the last.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: Trinden Felsad, author, warrior, and philosopher, among many other roles.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KEEPER: <The Keeper of the Portal nods and holds out his hand for a handshake.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: <Trinden vigorously shakes the Keeper’s hand, then bows respectfully.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KEEPER: Ahem.  Enjoy our facilities.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<Regardless of Trinden.>
KEEPER: <The Keeper of the Portal clears his throat.>  Moving on.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Imoen is in the party.>
KEEPER: Welcome back, Imoen.  We’ll still be watching out for your antics.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KEEPER: <The Keeper of the Portal gives a slight smile toward Imoen.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: <Imoen smiles.>  Oh, I have a -lotta- new tricks since following after Gorion all that time ago!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KEEPER: <The Keeper of the Portal loudly sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: Don’t worry!  Candlekeep doesn’t have enough interesting stuff to rob!  I should know!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KEEPER: <The Keeper of the Portal’s face twitches as if in disgust, curiosity, and confusion.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Volo is in the party.>
KEEPER: You return, Volo.  I’m -so sorry- about the misunderstanding about our last visit.  I didn’t recognize you!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Oh, well, I understand.  Some individuals have been impersonating -me- of all people!  It didn’t help that I was also in disguise for a research project.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KEEPER: <The Keeper of the Portal looks slightly nervously toward Volo but then relaxes.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: <Volo smiles and bows dramatically.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: No worries, sir.  Better safe than sorry, I suppose.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KEEPER: <The Keeper of the Portal nods in agreement.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Sarevok is in the party.>
KEEPER: And you... look familiar.  Have you been here before, warrior?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SAREVOK: You would know me as Koveras.  One of your house priests remarked that I seemed remarkably well-versed in Alaundo’s prophecies.  I come in peace if you also do.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KEEPER: <The Keeper of the Portal raises his eyebrow at ‘Koveras.’>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KEEPER: For now, yes.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SAREVOK: Good.  Keep it that way and there will be no trouble.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SAREVOK: <Sarevok flashes the Keeper of the Portal a sinister smile.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KEEPER: Welcome back.  I heard Elminster came to visit.
<Append these dialog options.>
I’m here for Tethtoril.  Where is he?
KEEPER: Look for him in the courtyard where he normally is.
[If the party hasn’t yet talked with Elminster in the library] Elminster?  Where is he?
KEEPER: I saw him walk toward the library.  I am not entirely sure why he is here now.
[If the party has talked with Elminster in the library] I already talked with Elminster, but thanks.
KEEPER: Good for you, then.
So, what changed since the last time I was here?
KEEPER: <The Keeper of the Portal shrugs.>  Most likely, <CHARNAME>, not much.  You are welcome to look around and check.
<Display this dialog before Reevor’s usual dialog.>
REEVOR: Oh.  You’re back, eh?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
REEVOR: I knew it would just be a matter of time!
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: What?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
REEVOR: The damn -rats- have gotten bigger ‘n’ nastier in the storehouse!
<Append these dialog options to Reevor’s normal dialog.>
Have you tried poison?
REEVOR: Damn rats are resistant!
Have you tried spells?
REEVOR: I -wear- those rats are breedin’ more spell resistance with every generation!  Candlekeep has so many magical tomes that it’s like a feast to them!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
REEVOR: But yer idea’s worth a shot.
Have you tried bear traps?
REEVOR: <Reevor stares at you blankly.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
REEVOR: Bear traps might be a wee bit too big, but... make a smaller trap and it should kill the rats!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
REEVOR: That’s -brilliant!-  I’ll try that next!
Why haven’t the cats eaten the mice?
REEVOR: Some of the animal lovers around here -spoiled- those cats by feedin’ ‘em high quality meat so much they got picky!  Rats tasted like trash to ‘em!
When are you gonna welcome me home?
REEVOR: Oh, I’m sorry.  I forgot my manners.  Welcome home.
Reevor, are you asking me to clear out your rat problem again?
REEVOR: No, no, <CHARNAME>.  I know you have better things to do nowadays - the Hero of Baldur’s Gate ‘n’ all.
Ulraunt - on the top floor of Candlekeep’s library where Rieltar was in BG1
FORENOTE: Attacking Ulraunt causes him to Dimension Door away (and out of the game world) instead of him fighting.
ULRAUNT: <Ulraunt glances up from his book, and the authority and arrogance in his demeanor are immediately apparent.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ULRAUNT: So, <CHARNAME>, you have returned - after all the fuss you caused with Rieltar Anchev not so long ago here in this -very library!-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Baeloth is in the party.>
ULRAUNT: And -you-, Baeloth, have already been granted passage, but know this:  Candlekeep is a sacred library, and -not- a prospect for one of your Black Pits!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: <Baeloth smirks.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Volo is in the party.>
ULRAUNT: And -you-, Volo, are allowed to stay so long as you -behave yourself- and do not try to peddle your -scandalous documents- around here!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: <Volo sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Drizzt is in the party.>
ULRAUNT: At least you found a solid moral example in Drizzt!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: Thank you, sir.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Trinden is in the party.>
ULRAUNT: <Ulraunt looks at Trinden who returns the gaze, but -far- more intensely!  Fire burns in Trinden’s eyes as if to issue a challenge!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ULRAUNT: <Ulraunt’s mouth opens a moment as if to speak to Trinden, but he says nothing and proceeds.>
ULRAUNT: <Ulraunt pauses a moment and clears his throat.>  Ahem.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ULRAUNT: Although, <CHARNAME>, I - ahem - do admit you were framed.  I have since pardoned this event and your company’s involvement in it.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ULRAUNT: However, I -warn- you, <CHARNAME>, that your Bhaalspawn heritage is -no excuse- for other violence in your home of many years!
Thanks for the official pardon.
ULRAUNT: Yes.  You are welcome.  I was most displeased at the commotion, but relieved when I learned you were not the murderous troublemaker I first thought you were, <CHARNAME>.
What do you mean ‘that you first thought I was?’
ULRAUNT: Civilization throughout the realms as we know it -depends- on Candlekeep storing -every valuable fact and secret!-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ULRAUNT: Why did you think I kept guards around, <CHARNAME>?  For show?  Not so!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ULRAUNT: The guards were trained to put any Bhaalspawn down at a moment’s notice if it -ever- showed itself as a threat to this place -or- its people!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: Don’t look at me that way, kid!  I didn’t know!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ULRAUNT: I -assure- you, <CHARNAME>, that only the top-ranking Candlekeep guards had -any- inkling of their true purpose.  Hull here -could- have deduced the truth.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull was in the party when they were imprisoned in Candlekeep, regardless of whether Hull is in the party.>
ULRAUNT: When we called Hull in for questioning after Rieltar Anchev’s murder, we were -discrete- in our questioning.  Hull proved to us that you, <CHARNAME>, had not become fully aware of your Bhaalspawn heritage nor manifested the fullness of your potential bloodline power.
So much for the guards!  They couldn’t keep petty assassins away from this place!
ULRAUNT: That is an unfortunate observation, <CHARNAME>, and one I quickly -rectified!-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ULRAUNT: Before you claim you found a fault in this plan, know this, <CHARNAME>:  The guards were useful in handling minor threats, yes, but also to buy the casters enough time to stop any major threat!
What brings you here?
ULRAUNT: Hmph.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ULRAUNT: This is -my- keep, and I can read from where what -I- please.
What were you reading?
ULRAUNT: A History of the Netheril Empire.  There have been whisperings of dangerous tidings with them in the near future, <CHARNAME>, and Candlekeep -must- be prepared for it!
[If Jan is in the party] My associate Jan Jansen has come to lodge a formal complaint.
JAN: Thank you, <CHARNAME>.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: <Hull sighs and facepalms as he shakes his head.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Not this.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<Regardless of whether Hull is in the party.>
JAN: On behalf of my-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ULRAUNT: Silence, gnome.  I know -exactly- what you intend to say.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
JAN: But-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ULRAUNT: Your relative’s flagrant -desecration- of the world’s knowledge entrusted to Candlekeep was worthy of a -far- harsher punishment than he received!  He was wise to leave Candlekeep soon after his crimes, and his permanent -banishment- from Candlekeep is a punishment he is -wise- to heed and not -appeal!-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
JAN: <Jan blinks at Ulraunt.>
What can you tell me of Gorion?
ULRAUNT: Hmph.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ULRAUNT: He was a man of many secrets as we -all should be!-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ULRAUNT: He was also a man -obsessed- with death, researching Bhaal and everything related!  All because Elminster told him off-hand that he might be able to find a Bhaalspawn if he looked in the right place!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ULRAUNT: He succeeded in finding you, <CHARNAME>.  He saved you from mass sacrifice in a Temple of Bhaal to the north and brought you here for sanctuary.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ULRAUNT: It was never sanctuary for the rest of us!  Your baby cooing was like a wicked smile!  Your infant cries were like the screams of the damned!
Why did you allow Gorion and me to stay then?
ULRAUNT: <Ulraunt glares at you, frustrated, spiteful, and demeaning.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ULRAUNT: I respected Gorion and especially -Elminster- who authorized the rescue mission.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ULRAUNT: Were anyone -else- to request that a Bhaalspawn, one of the most dangerous non-deific beings in the universe be housed -here-, they would have been very -harshly- denied!
What about Imoen?
ULRAUNT: After Gorion’s death, word reached me that we had sheltered a second Bhaaalspawn in Candlekeep without my knowledge - that being Imoen.  By the time I learned of it, she had already left and was no longer my problem.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Imoen is in the party.>
IMOEN: Hey!  Have a heart!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ULRAUNT: I let you stay here many years in safety, Imoen, and never once questioned the possibility you may have been a Bhaalspawn.  -That- was my heart!
How did you learn of my Bhaalish heritage?
ULRAUNT: Gorion did -abundant- research on Bhaal around the time he brought you here.  I -easily- deduced it, but kept quiet to avoid a mass panic.  You would be easily slaughtered or expelled for embracing your murderous birthright around here, <CHARNAME>.
What do you think of me now?
ULRAUNT: You are just like Gorion, adventuring here and there, getting involved in this trouble and that.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ULRAUNT: You are a powerful <CLASS> and I... respect your power.  -That- is why I dignify you with this conversation!
Do you have any tasks for me to help Candlekeep or you?
ULRAUNT: Yes.  Leave me to my work and let not your tainted, murderous blood bother me any longer!
What specific advice do you have for me?
ULRAUNT: If Alaundo’s prophecy is as true as your father Bhaal believed it to be, take it -extremely- seriously and settle your murderous feuds with your fellow Bhaalspawn and other enemies -far- outside my jurisdiction in Candlekeep!
Goodbye, then.
ULRAUNT: Yes, yes.  Don’t let your Bhaalish heritage taint Candlekeep nor me any longer.  Shoo!
Throne of Bhaal - Killing Ulraunt in Candlekeep
FORENOTE: Attacking Ulraunt in ToB also causes Elminster in the Candlekeep library to immediately teleport out.
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: Kid, no one liked the Old Buzzard, but killing him was too much!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I know pretty much nothing around here could stop you now.  Let’s... just get on with it.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Imoen is in the party.>
IMOEN: That was mean-spirited, <CHARNAME>!  He was an ass, but he was -our- ass!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: You know what I mean.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Sarevok is in the party.>
SAREVOK: The old fool was weak, and even I was tired of his prattling interference!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Baeloth is in the party.>
BAELOTH: Oh, I suppose we’ll need a replacement. (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Trinden is in the party.>
TRINDEN: So, -this- was the Headmaster who antagonized you.  I am -glad- you cut your ties!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Volo is in the party.>
VOLO: I suspect this is one part I shall conveniently omit from our records of our journey, yes?
<Display this dialog before Winthrop’s usual dialog.>
WINTHROP: Ah!  <CHARNAME>, you’re back again to visit ol’ Winthrop!  Allow me the pleasure of getting you a drink to calm your weary soul while you’re here - on the house!
<CHARNAME> consumes 1 drink.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: Got enough to share?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
WINTHROP: Sure, sure, Hull!  Take and enjoy!
<Hull consumes 1 drink.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
WINTHROP: Now I s’pose I should get -everyone- around here a drink.  Fine, fine.
<Each other party member consumes 1 drink.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Imoen is in the party.>
IMOEN: Yay!  Freebies!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Trinden is in the party.>
TRINDEN: <Trinden nods at Winthrop.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: Gracious.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Volo is in the party.>
VOLO: I shall need to make note of this generosity!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
WINTHROP: That sounds like Volo!  
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: It is!  Winthrop, my old friend, I see you’re still doing about the same as when I wrote my guide to the Sword Coast about you!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
WINTHROP: Well, yes.  I’m glad I taught ya to entertain!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Well, you -were- one of many influences.  I have learned some of the... unpleasantries of people taking my entertaining remarks too seriously.  Elminster has strongly encouraged me to change - for the sake of preserving historical accuracy across the realms!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
WINTHROP: All this pissin’ about because some people can’t take a joke!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: <Volo sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Baeloth is in the party.>
BAELOTH: Did someone say -entertainment?-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
WINTHROP: <Winthrop looks around innocently.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Allow me to introduce myself.  I am Baeloth Barrityl, more commonly known as BAELOTH THE ENTERTAINER!  Yes, I know. THAT Baeloth.  Fall to your knees and beg for mercy; I'm sure you know the drill.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
WINTHROP: <Winthrop falls to the ground and begs for mercy!>  Mercy, oh great entertainer!  Mercy! (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: This man’s a marvel!  He actually -listens- to the script and acts accordingly!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
WINTHROP: <Winthrop dramatically bows from his knees.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Stand and salute your new master, Baeloth the Entertainer. (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
WINTHROP: <Winthrop quickly rises to his feet and salutes Baeloth!>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: We do wonderful work!  I’m impressed! (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
WINTHROP: <Winthrop smiles and bows toward the others present.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: And for being -such- a -spectacular- sport about this Master Baeloth business, you my fat friend are worth a reward!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: <Baeloth tosses a small shiny coin with skull motifs toward Winthrop.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If the party has also received at least 1 favor coin from Baeloth.>
<CHARNAME>: <You recognize the coin as one Baeloth has given out on rare occasions, normally for great favors done for him!>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: This entitles you to one favor from Baeloth the Entertainer!  No refunds or exchanges.  Usable once only.  Void where prohibited.  All rights reserved.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
WINTHROP: How would I ever get in contact with you to use it?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: You’re among the casters of Candlekeep and I’m world famous!  Surely, -someone- can send me a message!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
WINTHROP: Well, thank you, oh mighty entertainer!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Show’s over.  Enjoy your inn life!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
WINTHROP: <Winthrop shrugs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
WINTHROP: What brings you back here, kiddo?  Last I heard you were out saving the world!
<Pick one.>
I missed home.
WINTHROP: Homesickness, eh?  Some good food ‘n’ good talk will cure it quick!
I liked your cooking.
WINTHROP: Simply irresistible, eh?
WINTHROP: Curiosity, eh?  That killed cats in traps!  <Winthrop chuckles.>
It was on the way to where I was going next.
WINTHROP: Well, you’re the world traveler!
Personal reasons.
WINTHROP: It’s a secret to everybody but you, eh?  <Winthrop playfully narrows his eyes at you.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<Show Winthrop’s normal dialog box at this time and append the below dialog to it.>
Knowing that this may be my final visit, what other tales do you have for me?
WINTHROP: <Winthrop looks at you with quiet hesitation.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
WINTHROP: <Winthrop sighs, and his playful exterior drops for a moment.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
WINTHROP: <CHARNAME>, I thought you’d be like Gorion, coming and going in Candlekeep so long as we lived!  But this savin’ the world business was more dangerous than I thought!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
WINTHROP: <Winthrop looks like he’s holding back pained tears from his face when he blinks, then quickly returns to his happy, jovial demeanor.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the party.>
HULL: Tell us your dog play story!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
WINTHROP: <Winthrop looks at Hull like he’s gone mad!>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
Hull: You can tell it better!  And if you don’t tell it, I’ll tell -my- version!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull isn’t in the party.>
WINTHROP: I suppose it is time to share a story that I have kept a secret for years!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
WINTHROP: <Winthrop groans slightly before taking a deep breath and speaking dramatically.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
WINTHROP: It was many years ago, <CHARNAME>, that a stray dog wandered into Candlekeep.  The dog had a brown-black coat and blue-green eyes.  No one cared much for it.  It smelled the food in my larder and became my best friend overnight!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
WINTHROP: I never gave the dog a name.  I just said, “Here, boy!” and the dog came.  I said, “Bad dog!” and the dog acted like it did nothing wrong.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
WINTHROP: Come to think of it, the dog may’ve been a girl.  I didn’t look at that part of the dog much.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
WINTHROP: Soon after Imoen came to Candlekeep, I figured we’d try doing something different around here:  We’d put on a play and delight our patrons with it!  The best we could do for a stage was the bar here, and -that- made for some fine comedy!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
WINTHROP: Imoen was -quite- the actor when she wanted to be, but wasn’t experienced with the stage.  She knew how to stick to script, but we all learned an important lesson about improvisation during the performance when she held the dog by the leash during a dramatic speech and it wandered off-stage, hanging in midair, suffocating and whining until she quickly finished her lines, grabbed the dog by the collar and pulled it into her arms.  I was behind the bar, trying not to panic.  The audience looked worried, but laughed afterward, like it was all part of the show!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Imoen is in the party.>
IMOEN: <Imoen smiles.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: Hey!  I remember that!  It -was- pretty funny!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Volo is also in the party.>
VOLO: <Volo scribbles something quickly.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Added to my notes.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
WINTHROP: <Winthrop sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
WINTHROP: That was the -last- time we ever did something like that around here!  The dog was already weak and died a couple months later for a variety of reasons.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
WINTHROP: That was... my dog play story.
[If Imoen is in the party] Imoen wants to know what happened to that book that the Most Noble Order of the Radiant Heart donated to Candlekeep all those years ago.
WINTHROP: <Winthrop looks at each of you, surprised and embarrassed.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
WINTHROP: I... no longer have the book.  Someone found it and tore out a buncha pages.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Volo is in the area.>
VOLO: What a -tragedy!-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Trinden is in the area.>
TRINDEN: <Trinden quietly shakes his head in disapproval.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<Regardless of Trinden and Volo.>
IMOEN: What was the book called again?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
WINTHROP: <Winthrop fidgets a moment, inhales deeply, then is interrupted by Imoen.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: Oh, yeah!  “The Sex Life of the Ogre:  An Illustrated Guide!”  It clearly explained the mating cycles of ogres and ogre-kin like ogrillons and half-ogres!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: If I remember right, gnomes were involved!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Baeloth is in the area.>
BAELOTH: Oh, I suppose we’ll need a replacement. (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Volo is in the area.>
VOLO: <Volo bursts out laughing!>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is in the area.>
HULL: What?!
<If Trinden is in the area.>
TRINDEN: <Trinden blinks then quietly sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Anomen is in the party.>
ANOMEN: -That- is what all the fuss was about?  It wasn’t worth all the drama!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Keldorn is in the party, regardless of Anomen’s presence in the party.>
KELDORN: I am sorry for the destruction of such a tome of knowledge here in these hallowed halls, especially one brought here for safekeeping by our order.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KELDORN: Winthrop, sir, Imoen mentioned you studied this book in earnest.  Do you believe you could reproduce the parts that were lost?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
WINTHROP: <Winthrop looks wide-eyed at Keldorn, not sure how to respond.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<Regardless of Keldorn’s presence in the party.>
IMOEN: Puffgutts, c’mon!  You never let something like some torn out pages stop you like that before!  You should be able to fix up that book, good as new, and give it a new life!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: A new sex life!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: <Imoen snickers.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
WINTHROP: I... I suppose I could redo the book.  I was never much for drawing, but, well...
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
WINTHROP: <Winthrop sighs nervously.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
WINTHROP: Perhaps... Perhaps Tethtoril could help with the pictures.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: -That’s- the spirit!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: <Imoen focuses her gaze into Winthrop’s eyes.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: Don’t let it happen again, mister!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
WINTHROP: <Winthrop sighs.>  Alright.
-=BAELOTH PARTY BANTER=-
BG2: AERIE/BAELOTH BANTER
If Aerie & Baeloth are in the party
BAELOTH: Ah, my dear Aerie.  You seemed shocked we would accompany one another!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AERIE: Well, yes.  You’re a Drow and-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: -you, Aerie, are an Avariel.  We’re not so different, you and I.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AERIE: Are you saying that because of my wings?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Only minorly, my dear.  I heard you were a slave, stolen from your home at an early age.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-- 
AERIE: Well, yes.  The circus took me in, even if they took me as a slave.  Life in the circus troupe was cruel and I wasn’t given enough space to spread my wings, so they just stopped working little by little.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Aw, what a pitiful past - but I don’t blame you for doing what you did.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AERIE: Thanks.  I think.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AERIE: What about you?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: I sort of ran a circus, acted as its combat coordinator and commentator, and lost it all when I bet my life on black.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AERIE: You were a gladiator?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: <Baeloth sighs.>  (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: By necessity and -not- by desire, my dear.  I was part of a game that was rigged to always win.  Surely you see the pain of losing a ‘foolproof’ game.  The circus is similar, or so I hear.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AERIE: Maybe my circus was kinder than others.  People did sometimes win the games.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AERIE: Winning the ring toss was the hardest.  I’m not sure if people were -meant- to win that.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: My dear, imagine if every time someone won the ring toss, one of your circus workers died.  What a wonderful spectacle of shame that would be!
BG2: AFAAQ/BAELOTH BANTER
If Afaaq & Baeloth are in the party
BAELOTH: Do you happen to know a Djinn named Najim?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AFAAQ: <Afaaq ponders a moment, mouthing the name.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AFAAQ: ‘Najim’ is not a name I have commonly heard.  I suspect I have a distant relative named Najim.  Why do you ask?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Let’s just say I’ve had some rather... unpleasant dealings with a certain Djinn of that name.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AFAAQ: Do you seek revenge for him twisting a wish?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-- 
BAELOTH: Not exactly.  He was bound to my service for a time, but managed to break free.  He... took something of significant value along the way and I wanted to know what you think I should do.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AFAAQ: I have heard of similar situations, and this is what I advise.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AFAAQ: Let it go.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: What?!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AFAAQ: You were clearly powerful enough to trap a genie in your schemes and Najim was powerful enough to escape and extract payment for his services.  The fact that you still live with your mind and body so intact should be regarded positively.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AFAAQ: I know that was not what you wanted to hear, but it is wise to avoid meddling in the affairs of powerful creatures.
BG2: ANOMEN/BAELOTH BANTER
If Anomen & Baeloth are in the party
ANOMEN: What is it, Drow?  What new means of mockery have you concocted?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Mockery?  No, my clever Cleric.  Inquiry!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ANOMEN: I suppose answering your... inquiry will cause you to stand farther away for a while so we can get back to more -worthy- pursuits!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Why did you have such a -burning desire- to join the knightly order?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ANOMEN: I simply wished to prove my worth to my family and myself.  I know beyond all doubt that I -can- follow my path.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-- 
BAELOTH: And how did you plan to do that by joining that dog kennel of an order?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ANOMEN: How -dare- you insult the Most Noble Order?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Think about it, my confident Cleric contemporary:  This order of knights and Paladins is one of the strictest around!  By joining, they put you on a permanent leash just like the ones -they- are on!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: You might do well for them and one day become top dog, but they demand -quick- and -reliable- obedience, just like a master whistling to his pet to come and slay.  The ability to think and act freely is taken from you, then -maybe- earned back with rank.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: But make one mistake they don’t like and they’ll neuter you.  No more position, powers, nor patron.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ANOMEN: Is this ‘cage’ how you see my order?  That we are dogs in the eyes of our superiors and patron?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Lawmen tend to be, but you need -not- be.  If this dream is worth the leash, then by all means, pursue it!  If you want to think for yourself, go on missions -far- from their office where their grip on your leash is weak.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: It’s easier to be your own man when no one is staring at you and expecting you to fail.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ANOMEN: Do you jest, Drow?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Oh, my Clerical companion, I can jest, but now I am being -sternly serious.-
<If Keldorn is also in the party.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KELDORN: Anomen, the Drow is correct in the strictness of our order, but we understand that our reputation and the good we do are worth the price of our freedom.  We help many who cannot help themselves.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ANOMEN: Thank you, teacher, for your insight.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ANOMEN: <Anomen turns to Baeloth.>  Drow?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Hmm?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ANOMEN: I -may- consider your counsel.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: That’s -all- I ask.
If Anomen & Baeloth are in the party AND Anomen hasn’t failed his knight training - Second Banter
ANOMEN: Drow, why all these inquiries?  Do you not know that I would bear any burden to obtain my dream?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Careful with your words, Cleric.  I spoke that very phrase to a Djinn and it cost me -dearly.-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: <Baeloth shows his left hand with a severed finger.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ANOMEN: What is the meaning of this?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Simple words before powerful gods and monsters make you their dog.  Careful about which leash you choose, Cleric.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-- 
ANOMEN: But why that finger?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Oh, I was not -born- this way if that’s what you mean.  I accepted a ring soulbound to my finger, a burden of wealth and power from a Djinn who later betrayed me, but he never removed the ring.  I decided that burden was no longer worthwhile, and so I ended it.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ANOMEN: What of your ring that pledged your loyalty?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Oh, it’s -somewhere-, I assure you.
ALL: ARTEMIS ENTRERI (BG1, BG2)/BAELOTH BANTER
If Artemis & Baeloth are in the party
BAELOTH: If it isn’t Artemis Entreri, revered rival of the -distinguished- Drizzt Do’Urden!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ARTEMIS: What is your point, drow?  Speak it quickly.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Witnessing the wonderful resolution of your feud in the Black Pits would be a beautiful battle to behold in the Black Pits!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ARTEMIS: For you it would.  My ‘rivals’ and I would not stand still long enough for you to finish your opening speech.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Oh, fixes and furnishings would be found, my friend!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-- 
ARTEMIS: Have you not noticed that Drizzt’s Champions of the Hall and I do not fight for mere entertainment but to -kill?-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Oh, I -perfectly- understand your point.  The pits add a pinch of pageantry upon your pugilism.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ARTEMIS: For you, it’s all about the spectacle and the coin that comes with the crowd calling for someone’s death.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Of course, of course!  There’s also the -prestige- of raising champions just to have them -plummet- to something a pinch more powerful!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Trust me my associate Artemis:  I too have been seeking Drizzt for some time to play with him in my pits.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ARTEMIS: Just remember, drow, that my goal is to -kill- Drizzt.  I do -not- toy with him!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: <Baeloth sighs.>  (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Yes, yes, efficiency and all that.  I also want -my- turn with him!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ARTEMIS: Finders killers, drow.
BG2: CAELAR/BAELOTH BANTER
If Caelar & Baeloth are in the party
BAELOTH: Behold how high you’ve risen, Caelar, ascending from Avernus!  How -hot- it must have been!  Such -blazing battles- befitting of stage and song!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CAELAR: Coming from you, -Drow-, I question your sincerity.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: -Insincere?-  Me?  You must mistake me for a jester!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CAELAR: Your ‘entertaining’ and ‘dramatic’ attitude, Drow, have made me question your motives and what you’re hiding.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Such suspicion!  It is not every day that an angel assails her way free from Avernus with or without outside help!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-- 
CAELAR: I... see.  I did not expect someone who could easily be my enemy celebrating my success.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Oh, I know well the feeling of loud crowds and splendid celebrations.  Often, the very most voluminous voices were from those who wanted me dead, disemboweled, disgraced, or deposed.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CAELAR: You have lived strangely, Drow.  Still, why?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Because I -survived- their assaults and my very vitality outrages their assassination attempts!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CAELAR: Success is the greatest revenge.  I see your point.
BG2: CERND/BAELOTH BANTER
If Cernd & Baeloth are in the party
CERND: Tell me, Baeloth:  What is ‘nature’ to you in the Underdark?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Darkness as far as the eye can see - and beyond - with giant fluorescent mushrooms to give some color in a vast expanse of blackness.  Portals to the Elemental Planes to give us air to breath, water to drink, earth to mask our scent, and fire with which to brand our slaves.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: It’s a circle of violence, Cernd, just like on the surface.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CERND: You speak of violence and slavery.  How are these things natural?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Where there’s life, there’s war!  -Everyone- and -everything- wants to rule!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-- 
BAELOTH: Look at the trees of the forest!  They’re all in a slow death race to the top to prevent each other from getting the life they need to grow!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Look at the animals and creatures of the wild!  They’ll fight and kill each other out of hunger, yes, but also out of boredom!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Look at the so-called ‘civilized’ places and races!  All it takes is the right crisis for civilization to crumble and show its -true- nature:  Hungry, desperate men turn into animals and savages to survive or if it suits them!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: So, the Underdark just happens to be an -exemplary- ecosystem to demonstrate just how -destructive- all life can be!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CERND: Do you think that being underground changes things?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Why, of course!  We have ready access to so many spell components from corpses and mining that -of course- we’ll use these on the nearest thing we don’t like!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CERND: So, in short, ready access to magic materials underground inspires blood feuds?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Think of it like natural predators and prey, except in the Underdark, they’re all magically talented, sometimes predators and prey switch places, and they have more eyes or tentacles than you have fingers.
BG2: CORWIN/BAELOTH BANTER
If Corwin & Baeloth are in the party
CORWIN: Baeloth, you survived the siege of Dragonspear, the assault on Avernus, and came here?  I’m not sure if I should be surprised.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Oh, captain, my captain, dare you underestimate this Drow?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CORWIN: I suppose so.  What’s kept you busy since the banishment from Baldur’s Gate?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Reviving my business empire.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-- 
CORWIN: You’re still determined to build up from that... calling it a side show would be generous.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Now, now.  You can take Baeloth out the Black Pits over his dead body, but you can’t take the Black Pits for they are burned into my very SOUL!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CORWIN: Well, -someone’s- proud of his mission in life.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Aye?  (From here.)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Let me entertain you!  (From here.)
BG2: DORN/BAELOTH BANTER
If Dorn & Baeloth are in the party
DORN: Drow, why do you again bother me with your banter?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: I’m here to understand your ambition instead of assuming it asininely.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DORN: Blood, death, and vengeance suit me well, Drow.  -That- much you should know.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Surely your style is not to act as a safe whose sole purpose is to elude entry.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DORN: Consider this, Drow:  My goal is to make my mark upon the realms and obtain the vengeance I seek.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-- 
BAELOTH: Perhaps our priorities align!  I propose preparing your prowess in an arena purveyed and promoted by me.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DORN: I have considered your offer, Drow, but know this:  A mere pit ring is too small to contain my ambition.  I am to test my limits against foes on a worldwide scale.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Ah, my armored associate!  Is this not what you sought - nation against nation and brother against brother for a drama like no other?  It seems our assumptions and affinities align.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DORN: Seemingly so, Drow.  Don’t be surprised if you fall over backwards in writhing agony once you realize how much I seek to conquer!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Oh, trust me, Dorn.  You conquer the champions and common folk while I entertain whatever remains!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DORN: In your bloody pit battles?  It sounds like a challenge.  I’m in.
BG2: DRIZZT/BAELOTH BANTER
If Drizzt & Baeloth are in the party
DRIZZT: So, what do you want with me, you sadistic ringmaster and slave driver?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Drizzt, Drizzt!  I’m not here to malign you with pointless banter!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: Then why are you here?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: I came to tell you that your rebelling against the Drow of the Underdark as you did makes more -sense- to me now!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: What do you mean?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-- 
BAELOTH: We’re Drow.  Bloodlust and senseless violence is in our -blood!-  You saw that, left, made a long list of enemies, and realized you should be doing something better elsewhere.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: <Drizzt suspiciously snorts at Baeloth.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: And what do you have to thank for this ‘revelation’ of yours?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: I’ve lived the high life in Drow society before getting killed, betrayed, exploited, dragged through Hell - very literally, in fact - and was encouraged to start over.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: In Drow society, -everyone’s- a scheming bastard!  I know!  I schemed!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: Well, -Baeloth-, this little progress is evident in your path toward the light.  Keep on this path and we can continue our dealings together.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Agreed, my associate.
BG2: EDWIN/BAELOTH BANTER
If Edwin & Baeloth are in the party
BAELOTH: Ah, if it isn’t my favorite Red Wizard!  It’s gloriously good to greet you!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
EDWIN: Yes, yes, Baeloth.  You are right.  Your flattery will get you far.  (What’s this guy scheming now?)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: I can heeeeeear you!  (From here.)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
EDWIN: Yes, yes.  You were thinking it, anyway.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: As recognized by my research, Thay contains one of Faerun’s finest fighting arenas, and I would -love- an introduction from you to those in charge.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-- 
EDWIN: What makes you think they would give a rat’s ass about what you think, Drow?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: I have -quite- the acute arcane ability myself, and -years- of experience yanking slaves into obedience to have them duel to the death!  Truly, we can talk tips!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
EDWIN: Hmm.  Perhaps, Drow, perhaps.  Make it worth my while and I can send someone a message.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Let me entertain you!  (From here.)
BG2: ELARYN/BAELOTH BANTER (BEAURIN LEGACY)
If Elaryn & Baeloth are in the party - first dialog
ELARYN: -Drow-, you just -disgust- me!  You are the spitting image of a villain!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Oh, why -someone- surely seems surly this century!  What do you wonder is wrong with Baeloth the Entertainer?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELARYN: Our leader invited us to join the same group and yet... you’re a -drow!-  Your heart is as black as your skin and you’re just -waiting- to ensorcell us with your spells and your words!  Sweeter than heavenly nectar but black as the foul pits that spawned you!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Ooh!  You think I haven’t heard -that- a hundred times before?  Just listen to yourself!  All your allegations make -you- seem a -lot- like the -aggressor-, here!  At least -I- can be polite long enough to make peace with -plenty- of beings!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-- 
ELARYN: <Elaryn scowls at Baeloth!>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Does Baeloth the Entertainer also need to be Baeloth the Educator to you?  Fine!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Recognize your role, you repellent wretch.  I am the Entertainer.  I speak.  You watch and applaud - or remove yourself if you’d rather.  (from Baeloth’s intro scene in SoD)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELARYN: The only thing stopping me from ripping out that blackened tongue of yours and making you choke on it is the respect I have for our leader and myself.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Oh, you silly self-righteous prissy.  I’m -not- a man to mess with.  I’m not here to start a fight with you, but I -promise- you, I -will- end one!
BG2: GARRICK/BAELOTH BANTER
If Garrick & Baeloth are in the party
BAELOTH: Ah, my masculine minstrel muses over his music.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GARRICK: Back for more attempts to name whatever tune I play?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Not now, my minstrel, but your playing is pleasant.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GARRICK: Thank you so very much for your most gracious compliment. (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: I was pondering putting performers beside my Black Pits to persuade the temperaments of battlers and audiences alike.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-- 
GARRICK: Nothing soothing, then?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: No.  Not one bit!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GARRICK: <Garrick hums a tune while loudly clapping and moving in rhythm.)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Yes, young one.  Something rousing, loud, and rightfully rhythmic should satisfy the audiences for the slaughter!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GARRICK: I shall refine my work and get back to you.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: <Baeloth smiles.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: And not a single simple song, either!  I seek a suite of songs, a symphony of slaughter!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GARRICK: That will take time... and coin.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: But it is worth it when ready!
BG2: HAER’DALIS/BAELOTH BANTER
If Haer’Dalis & Baeloth are in the party
HAER’DALIS: Why have you repeatedly questioned my choice of profession?  I am satisfied with where I am, thank you.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Why traipse about with that troupe of yours when you are such a competent combatant?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HAER’DALIS: We have been friends for longer than I have known you.  We compliment each other.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Certainly you can!  But have you considered leaving the low-budget life of the stage to gain something greater?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HAER’DALIS: I already know what you mean - life as a gladiator where the arena is the stage and all the action is real.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-- 
BAELOTH: Absolutely, though acknowledging one's individual abilities is also an admirable attribute.  (From here.)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HAER’DALIS: The challenge of fighting for survival and for the thrill of the crowd has its appeal, I admit, but I also enjoy engaging with my fans before and after the show.  
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: You still can!  Nothing a little resurrection and restoration won’t remedy if it comes to that.  You’re rich enough that death is but a diminutive dent in your demeanor.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HAER’DALIS: Baeloth, perhaps I shall agree to your terms.  I had been seeking inspiration for a similar character I intended to portray in a work I am writing called “The Reign of Blades.”
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Practice makes perfect - and permanent.
BG2: HEXXAT/BAELOTH BANTER
If Hexxat & Baeloth are in the party
HEXXAT: Drow, why do you follow me around as if I were a child?  Are you afraid I’ll suck your blood?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Verily, but you are vivacious for a vampire, even in full view of the light.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HEXXAT: Yes, Drow, and I know your proposal:  You want me to fight in your underground arena and earn my meals through being a predator of whatever prey you throw at me.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Correct, my clever and cordial companion!  Partaking as a pit warrior would properly prepare you to be in peak performance in siphoning sanguine substances.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HEXXAT: Do you -demand- I be your pet pit vampire?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-- 
BAELOTH: It is an offer, but not an outstanding order.  However, your agreement would be much obliged.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HEXXAT: If I am in the mood, Drow, I shall consider it.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Your vampiric vivacity could make for a very violent delight!  My main demand is you refrain from siphoning the showgoers’ lives as a matter of professional courtesy.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HEXXAT: So long as they bet for me and not against me.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: I can already imagine your arena alias!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HEXXAT: It had better not be anything embarrassing, Drow.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: “Death delivered.”  (From here.)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HEXXAT: Not my first choice, Drow, but I may go agree to it.
BG2: HUBELPOT/BAELOTH BANTER
If Hubelpot & Baeloth are in the party
BAELOTH: Bah!  What is this -disgusting drivel- you wanted me to down?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HUBELPOT: Relax, Baeloth!  They’re only mushrooms!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Mushrooms?!  They don’t glow and they look -entirely- too inconspicuous!  You -poisoned- these, -didn’t- you?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HUBELPOT: Oh, c’mon now!  I thought you Underdark denizens -liked- mushrooms!  Besides, what did you eat for all those years you were underground?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: I was born into a family who quickly had a Ring of Sustenance custom made for me so I could avoid the intrigue around ingested poisons.  I’m pretty sure I’ve -never- eaten anything in the Underdark!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-- 
HUBELPOT: What a sad, sad life never tasting the -delicious- and -luscious- taste of vegetables!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Because you can heal me, I’ll humor you -this- time.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: What’s that orange dagger-looking one?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HUBELPOT: That’s a carrot.  Eating them helps eyesight, especially in the dark.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: <Baeloth looks at the carrot suspiciously.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Attempted poisoning and now throat stabbing?  You’re -quite- the lethal Druid, Hubelpot.  You might even survive a day of Drow intrigue in the Underdark!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HUBELPOT: <Hubelpot playfully bows.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HUBELPOT: Thank you.  Thank you.  I live to serve.
BG2: HULL/BAELOTH BANTER
If Hull & Baeloth are in the party AND Hull finished his Knighthood training
BAELOTH: What’s this, Hull?  Did you join that Paladin order in Athkatla?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: What?  Are you not impressed?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Oh, Hull, I -am- impressed.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Good!  So, what’s yer point?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: I thought you were -fond- of your freedom.  Those in the order seem very... picky about how everyone in the world should be.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-- 
HULL: Picky?  Yeah.  I can see your point.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But for me, it’s an achievement.  I knew I could do it, and I wanted to prove to everyone I could do it, and I did.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: My dear Hull, are you not -concerned- about them possibly -interfering- with what should be done?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Baeloth, I’ve liked you and I prefer to keep liking you, and, yeah, I know they -could- interfere.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But the order trusts its members enough to decide some things for themselves.  We’re held to high standards, but the people we help trust us -because- we act according to these standards.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: All it takes for a rumor to start is for someone in power to have some bad experiences with the Drow, then the rumor spreads that all Drow are bad and untrustworthy.  Enough people believe it and it becomes true.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Well, Hull, I am -glad- we trust each other more than that!  Hmm?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Me too, Baeloth.  Me too.
BG2: IMOEN/BAELOTH BANTER
If Imoen & Baeloth are in the party
BAELOTH: Imoen, why the wailing?  Your cheerful countenance even got me to crack a smile!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: I’ve been... experimented on.  Tortured.  I tried keeping my head up and staying cheery, but, it’s like my captor made my -soul- hurt!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: You have me quite curious:  What wounds did he inflict and where?  What methodology led him?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: I... I’m not entirely sure I know.  Just thinking about it hurts.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-- 
BAELOTH: If I -knew- then I could better try to -undo- it, my dear.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: Thanks, but why do you care so much about this, anyway?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Subjugating slaves is my -specialty.-  Your captor’s technique seemed curiously cultivated for copious quantities of cricks and cramps and convulsions.  I dare say he overdid it.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: Thanks.  I didn’t like his torment, either!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: There exists a threshold beyond which further torment is trivial to the task of training slaves to obey and marks a master’s abuse for his amusement or anger abatement.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: Does knowing this change anything?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Not noticeably.  No notches on your noggin.  Back bruises and lacerations seem minimal.  It was like your tormenter’s main aim was to maximize the mitigation of your morale.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: It seems strange to me to ask you for this, but will you help cheer me up - for everyone’s benefit?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: <Baeloth grins.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Let me entertain you!  (From here.)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Come, my dear Dwarf.  I have -plans.-
ToB: IRENICUS/BAELOTH BANTER
If Irenicus & Baeloth are in the party
BAELOTH: Your arcane affinity is alarming!  How did you acquire all this ability?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IRENICUS: Most likely in the same manner that you did, -Drow.-  I have spent an -age- refining my craft.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Do I sense some -resentment- resounding in that voice?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IRENICUS: I’ll not be toyed with.  I see through your charismatic nature to a conflicted Drow confident he can take on the world while hiding from his feelings of cowardice from being bettered.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-- 
BAELOTH: You were -drawn- to the Drow as allies as we are -the- most competent combatants the Underdark has to offer - unless it was all a ruse.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IRENICUS: Hmph.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: And don’t start me stammering about how -you- had been bettered.  Hmm?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IRENICUS: Condemnation alone solves nothing.  Only through a proper application of wisdom can forward progress be made and maintained.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: To task!  (From here.)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IRENICUS: As we seemingly agree on this point, let me make it unmistakably clear to you that your ‘entertainment’ holds no value to me.  It wastes your breath and my time, each of which is better spent fulfilling our mission.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IRENICUS: Act in accordance with this or be not surprised if your antics lead to your downfall, just like with the downfall of Ust Natha.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: I’m here, and I hear.  (From here.)
BG2: JAHEIRA/BAELOTH BANTER
If Jaheira & Baeloth are in the party
BAELOTH: Ah, Jaheira.  Round up any runts to remove to better the balance?  You were quite fond of quoting, “Nature take the life she gave!”
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
JAHEIRA: Don’t patronize me, Drow.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Patronize?  Preposterous!  I peacefully propose partaking in your purpose in life - unless the ‘natural balance’ is no longer your priority.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
JAHEIRA: What would you know about -balance?-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-- 
BAELOTH: Well, my well-traveled companion, what say you to the notion that this ‘balance’ is but a subjective opinion on how it operates?  Are not all you Druids keen on avoiding conglomeration?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
JAHEIRA: I’ll tell you this much, -Drow.-  I’m my own person.  What you consider friendly flattery I call an affront to nature and my training!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: But do I speak deceit when I declare what part of the balance you keep is your discretion?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
JAHEIRA: You are unfortunately correct.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: “Unfortunately?”  How unexpected!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
JAHEIRA: I know enough of your past and you know enough of mine.  It’s like you prod and pry to get me to agree with something that’s technically true but all part of a scheme I simply want to avoid!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: It’s an earnest inquiry.  Truly, am I the antagonist?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
JAHEIRA: To me right now you are.  If you’re here to butcher animals for meat or to make them fight for your amusement, don’t look to me for my blessing, -Baeloth.-
BG2: JAN/BAELOTH BANTER
If Jan & Baeloth are in the party
BAELOTH: Oh, Jan!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
JAN: Y-yes?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: You wouldn't be interested in playing a little GAME, would you? Mmm? (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
JAN: Game?  I -love- games!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
JAN: There was this time about thirty years ago when my second cousin on my mother’s side and I played our longest game of Chess yet.  We were at it for over a day, and we kept moving our pieces to prevent being checkmated, but she passed out from exhaustion first, so she forfeited the game.  She violently appealed to my mother after this and claimed that I did something to make her lose when I did not.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-- 
BAELOTH: Ahem.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
JAN: Ahem what?  Oh.  Your game?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: <Baeloth silently blinks.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Yes, my light-skinned Svirfneblin.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
JAN: <Jan also blinks.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
JAN: There!  We’re tied!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: <Baeloth shakes his head and sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Nevermind.
BG2: KELDORN/BAELOTH BANTER
If Keldorn & Baeloth are in the party
KELDORN: A Drow among us?  What madness is this?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: I’m not bad.  I just detect that way.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KELDORN: <Keldorn narrows his eyes suspiciously at Baeloth.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: You’re a Paladin.  I can tell.  Big, strong type.  Fondness for heavy armor and big swords.  I’m a Sorcerer and look like something you were trained to -hate!-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KELDORN: What is your point?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-- 
BAELOTH: Oh, Keldorn, despite appearances, we’re not so different - you and I.  In fact, I think we’ll get along -just fine.-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KELDORN: What trickery is this?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: I can tell you’re sworn to eradicate demons, devils, deviants, beholders, and all sorts of baddies.  I -too- want many of them dead.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: In fact, I’d be -happy- to help point out many of them to you.  -Plenty- of them pissed me off, and we can enjoy ridding the realms and the planes of them.  Together.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KELDORN: <Keldorn looks suspiciously at Baeloth.>  What do you get from this?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Oh, I -know- you get pleasure from killing things and making these surface dwellers happier for it.  -I- get the pleasure of making sure these -creatures- never ask me for money or favors again.  It’s win-win!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KELDORN: What am I?  Your muscle in a collections agency?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Oh, my dear Keldorn, your order has already made you that!  You’re a reaper of souls!  You slay demons and devils and dragons and deviants of all sorts and collect their corpses as trophies to make Big Daddy Paladin in the order feel better.  With me, you’re just doing under my guidance and with my help.  I won’t even charge you for my services.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KELDORN: I... see.  Perhaps I was mistaken about you, Drow.  But know this:  I -will- strike you down at the first sign of betrayal!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: I would expect nothing less from my righteous executioner!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Come, my pet Paladin!  There’s some foul fiend who owes me its gold or its guts, and we’re gonna collect - together!
If Keldorn & Baeloth are in the party - Second Banter
KELDORN: What is it, -Baeloth?-  Another affection or something more pressing?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: My precious paladin and insightful inquisitor, I have an important inquiry.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KELDORN: <Keldorn sighs at Baeloth.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KELDORN: I am hesitant to let you indulge your tongue my way, but go on.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: What is the primary purpose of paladinhood - to uplift the unfortunate underdog or to smite the sinner?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KELDORN: That is... a remarkably -sensible- question to ask of me, Baeloth.  It is one I asked my teachers many years ago.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-- 
KELDORN: The truest answer is that everyone has a calling, a ministry.  Some are first and foremost teachers or preachers or healers or charity workers.  Some are scholars or investigators.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-- 
KELDORN: Being a paladin also means being a lawman, which means being a soldier.  We are held to a high standard of moral and military character which is meant to inspire others to follow our lifestyles by example.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: That’s -precisely- my pickle!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KELDORN: Go on.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Let’s postulate a pair of paladins is praised as saviors because they slay demons.  That same day, should they also be hailed as heroes for upholding the laws of the land for punishing a peddler for being too poor to pay his prescribed taxes?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KELDORN: To what cause are these hypothetical paladins sworn?  What are the laws of the land and who enforces them?  What is their calling in life?  All these matter more than you know.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KELDORN: You ask if it is better to uphold the letter of the law or to do good by showing mercy when it is appropriate.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: An important inquiry, inquisitor.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KELDORN: It is easier to make and break rules than it is to help those in need as they should be helped.  Bringing about the greater good is my calling, even though I am still bound by certain oaths.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Wise words, my prudent paladin.
If Keldorn & Baeloth are in the party - Third Banter
BAELOTH: What noble notions noodle through your noggin? (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KELDORN: There may be hope for your redemption yet, Baeloth.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Redemption?  Do you have a winning lottery ticket?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KELDORN: No.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KELDORN: The cosmic forces of good and evil war with each other in a fight that rages across the planes.  Each side claims whatever souls it can.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KELDORN: It was... unfortunate for cosmic good that you were born a drow and influenced as you were, but you are a free-willed being, Baeloth.  As you said, some of our goals are greatly aligned.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Do you expect me to partake of the profession of paladin with your particular personification of penance and prayer?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KELDORN: Not specifically, Baeloth, but there is hope you would desire to bestow mercy and not sacrifice others in your arenas.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: I’m... indisposed!  My career and calling in life are completely dependent upon a steady stream of suckers seeking fame and fortune from fighting.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KELDORN: Is that all you are, Baeloth - a promoter of your Black Pits?  What happens if you’re no longer Baeloth the Entertainer but just Baeloth the man, or the drow as the case may be?  It’s happened before.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: What a hurt to the heart that was, to contemplate the possibility that I could no longer be Baeloth the Entertainer!  The realms would be ever so -boring- without me!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: But you got me thinking, a -dangerous- decision on your part!  If I were different, then what?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KELDORN: That is a good start, Baeloth.  We shall talk more later about this.
If Keldorn & Baeloth are in the party - Fourth Banter
BAELOTH: What you call ‘cosmic good’ seems radically racist to me!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KELDORN: <Keldorn raises his eyebrow in suspicion at Baeloth.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Here you are, you fair-skinned human and knight in shining armor and you claim you embody cosmic good.  Meanwhile the denizens of the Underdark and dragons whose scales are a certain color are asking for eradication because they’re ‘cosmic evil’ and ‘born badly.’  That’s the embodiment of unfair!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KELDORN: Many of these creatures you listed are free-willed and intelligent enough to be able to think for themselves.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: So, if some unintelligent ant or animal lives by survival of the fittest, it’s excused from this cosmic morality, but if something with a bring as big as yours - and possibly with a greater skin pigmentation - believes in survival of the fittest, it’s part of this cosmic morality?  Didn’t one of your -human- scholars who looked a bit like you write about survival of the fittest in the first place?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KELDORN: <Keldorn ponders uncomfortably a moment.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: The look on your face tells me -all- I need to know!  I’ve been interrogating this inequality for longer than you’ve lived!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KELDORN: I cannot speak of what you call ‘survival of the fittest,’ but these cosmic forces -absolutely exist!-  I -know- you’re smart enough to understand this.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Oh, indeed, my pet Paladin!  I understand the underlying theory, but for someone blessed or burdened with an ability to see who or what your god or cosmic morality permitted you to punish, have you ever wondered -specifically- how it worked?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KELDORN: Not in the way that you propose.  I understand there are certain things I simply do not need to know.  I should focus on the things I do.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Well worded my pious patriarch!  I whole-heartedly agree that my time is too treasured to put toward trivial tasks.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KELDORN: For once I understand your position.  Your kind was hunted because you looked like you were of the darkness by surface-dwellers who believed they alone were of the light.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: There’s hope for you yet, Keldorn!  I’ve been saying that for ages!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KELDORN: Even with this understanding, do not think me hesitant to punish you for your unwanted behavior, Baeloth.  I am still a soldier with an oath to uphold cosmic morality.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Oh, my pet Paladin!  I am grateful and glad we get along!  After all, we are not so different:  You want to slay evil to uphold cosmic morality and I want to slay evil because it’s ugly and it owes me money.  Either way, evil is eliminated.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KELDORN: And what about charity?  Is there room in your heart for -that?-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: You want to do charity because it makes people want to like and follow you while cosmic morality’s causes are cuddled.  I can, ahem, -tolerate- charity because it makes people want to like and follow me.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KELDORN: Hmm.  You are a skilled debater.  I grant you that, drow.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: I could say I’m a -master- of the craft, but I prefer the title of ‘Baeloth the Battlemaster’ or more commonly ‘Baeloth the Entertainer’ and I’m not trying to argue a case like one of your attorneys or magistrates.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: I say we drop the matter.  No sense in making a mess after all our progress!
BG2: KIVAN/BAELOTH BANTER FROM HERE OR HERE
If Kivan & Baeloth are in the party
BAELOTH: Oh, Kivan!  How is my arching associate acclimating?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KIVAN: Stay away from me, dark elf. (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Oh, Kivan.  Why so wary?  Hmm?  Get up on the wrong side of your bed this century?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KIVAN: Shut up!  Your chattering might drive us all insane. (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: So severe!  I know it’s because of your dearly departed Deheriana!  I have a plan to return her to this reality.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-- 
KIVAN: <Kivan looks quietly and suspiciously at Baeloth.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KIVAN: Watch what you say. (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Would a True Resurrection revive your dearly departed?  If so, a potent priest and a proper payment would pave the way to her again partaking of this plane.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KIVAN: I have considered that.  This matter has been... difficult to think and talk about.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: A pain point, I know!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KIVAN: I shall keep this brief:  For now, don’t disturb the dead.  No animating her.  Let me handle this matter.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Absolutely, my associate!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KIVAN: And keep quiet toward me.  I simply need time to think.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Beckon Baeloth when need be.  
BG2: KORGAN/BAELOTH BANTER
If Korgan & Baeloth are in the party
KORGAN: What do -you- know about fightin’, Drow?  All I’ve seen you carry around is a prissy little stick!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Aw.  Did someone wake up on the wrong side of the keg?  Hmm?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KORGAN: And I’ve ne’er seen ye cart around no holy symbols nor spellbooks, either.  It’s like you dance and prance around all prissy-like magic sparks come odda yer hands!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Aw!  Is the short one jealous that he can’t kill anything he’d please with a well-placed sneeze?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KORGAN: I sneezed all over ye earlier.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-- 
BAELOTH: It was downright -disgusting!-  Rightfully -revolting!-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KORGAN: Give it time, Drow.  It’ll still kill ye.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: It’s like you -want- me to hate you.  Noticing more melancholy from your mediocre stature is amusing, at least!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KORGAN: Alright, ye damned Drow.  Ye pass.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: With my usual panache, I assume.  (From here.)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KORGAN: Ye’ve been sneezed at, pissed on, insulted, and survived my beer ‘n’ sausage farts.  Ye got my respect, spell-slinger.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: What a woeful pain it was at first, being subjected to your -primitive- palette of -pain.-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KORGAN: Whaddaya mean?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Let’s see.  I’ve been disfigured, dismembered, disemboweled, dead, dishonored, depressed, diseased, and detritus.  Your little disgusting ditty was... dainty.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KORGAN: Whatever, Drow.  Just do your prissy dancin’ toward our enemies.  Maybe they’ll run away in fear or fall down laughin’.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Come, my dear Dwarf.  I have -plans.-
BG2: MAZZY/BAELOTH BANTER
If Mazzy & Baeloth are in the party - first dialog
BAELOTH: What have we here?  A light-skinned Svirfneblin?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: No, the skull’s slightly too small.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
MAZZY: I’m a Halfling, not a Gnome.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: I was just about to say that!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
MAZZY: Drow, what is your point?  I tolerated the decision of our leader for us to travel together.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-- 
BAELOTH: Oh, I was just learning more about you surface folk.  Apparently, we have a lot in common - besides skin color, of course!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
MAZZY: I think I know where this is going, but tell me anyway.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: I am -so very glad- you asked!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: We have plenty of -common enemies!-  Being around the surface for so long has taught me that it seems -everyone- hates -everything- in the Underdark!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
MAZZY: -Hate- is a -strong- term, and maybe not the right one, but I see your point.  We on the surface have had -strong suspicions- toward your malignant kind!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Any guesses as to why?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
MAZZY: Have you seen Beholders?  Illithids?  Demons?  Devils?  Liches?  Many of them are rich, powerful, ugly-looking things that seem to be fighting amongst themselves for the chance to take over the surface as tyrants and puppet masters!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: When you put it that way my dear Mazzy, I think we’ll get along -just fine.-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
MAZZY: Just remember, Baeloth:  I am -not- your puppet!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: No, but for now we’re partners.  Let’s go cull the Underdark herd - together.  Ready when you are!
If Mazzy & Baeloth are in the party - second dialog
MAZZY: Drow, I noticed you meditating in my general direction.  What are you pondering?  Do I dare ask?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Due to your determined desire to deduce what I was wondering, surely I shall share it!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
MAZZY: <Nazzy sighs.>  At the very least, I invited this.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: I was musing on how wonderfully wanted the short folk - the Svirbneblin - were backstage in the Black Pits among the bigger beings.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
MAZZY: Why would you wonder this around me?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-- 
BAELOTH: If you could smile and give into levity around me, surely we would be -wonderful- at parties!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
MAZZY: What evil depravity is this?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Nothing sensual, I assure you.  The Svirfneblin were similarly celibate.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
MAZZY: Well, Drow, I am hesitant to say I am honored you think of me as something more than a mere marionette or sexual prey to be conquered.  At least you possess -that- basic dignity.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: That was only a -third- of the thought.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
MAZZY: And now I shall walk away, lest I hear the rest.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: If you are to be the epicenter of any entertaining party endeavors, you simply -need- to know.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
MAZZY: <Mazzy sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: The short ones were such a smash since they had bound bowls of beautiful food to their heads as they meandered and mingled.  Guests never had to stoop to scoop!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
MAZZY: You just proved my point, -Drow.-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: So, are you partial to casks of red wine?  Caviar?  Crackers?  Whatever you deliver shall -surely- be a -delight!-
BG2: MINSC/BAELOTH BANTER
If Minsc & Baeloth are in the party
MINSC: Boo sniffs the -evil- in the air around you, Drow, but he doesn’t want to attack!  I am confused!  Explain this bewitchment!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: I assure you your hamster is downright -delighted- to be entertained by the best in the business!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
MINSC: But how do you explain Boo wanting to dance?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Your rodent is right in wanting to revel around me.  Delight is my desire and gladiatorial glee my goal.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
MINSC: But why is my hamster dancing?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-- 
BAELOTH: My skin secretes a scent sweet to the small creatures like him.  I assumed it as an anomaly.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
MINSC: Well, so long as it doesn’t prevent us from fighting the evil we need to fight, I think it’s fine.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
MINSC: Come here, Boo!  I need to teach you words to sing with your dance!  Ha ha!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: This seems like a very personal priority and I would prefer a -private- performance with the pair of you.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
MINSC: Ha ha!  Minsc and Boo shall slay evil and sing and dance happily together!
BG2: MINYAE/BAELOTH BANTER (BEAURIN LEGACY)
If Minyae & Baeloth are in the party - first dialog
MINYAE: Baeloth, you are quite the accomplished magician, and I can appreciate that.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Why thank you, m’lady!  Are you after an autograph?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
MINYAE: Not today.  Your alliteration just... annoys me!  I don’t know why, but it it just -does!-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: A perplexing point that pains me like pins of a porcupine!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-- 
MINYAE: You did it again!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: To the untrained ear, my dear, these words may be difficult to hear.  Some are foul and have many vowels, but know that my heart is sincere.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
MINYAE: A rhyme?  A... limerick?  Just what sort of -Sorcerer- are you?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Don’t misunderstand me, my deare.  I am well-studied in the scholarship of speech.  It makes a man memorable and is impractical to mimic.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
MINYAE: So you use your elaborate speech so it makes people just -think- about you and your distinct identity?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Of course, my dear!  Drizzt Do’Urden has his scimitars.  Elminster Aumar has his crimson garb.  Baeloth Barrityl is an entertainer of entertainers in our out of his Black Pits!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
MINYAE: Try entertaining our enemies with your fancy speech.  Maybe you can lecture them to sleep.  Or death.  Either way works for me.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Oh, you mock my manner of speech or notice what I already know?  Nevermind.  This nonsense gets us nowhere.
BG2: NALIA/BAELOTH BANTER
If Nalia & Baeloth are in the party - first dialog
BAELOTH: Nalia, what’s nagged me about you is that you don’t seem to know how to -rule!-  I thought you were a noble!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NALIA: Well, I am.  I’m just not sure I -enjoy- being one.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: How can you hate having others be legally liable to wait on you and do all the menial deeds you’d prefer to defer?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NALIA: Day after day I see injustices in the world.  The poor walk miles to get food while the rich walk miles to get rid of the food they ate so they don’t get too fat.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: So you say.  (From here.)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-- 
NALIA: But can’t you see the painful inequality here?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: My precious, naive Nalia, let me educate your noble noggin in the ways of the world.  You assume asininely that all lives are of equal worth.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NALIA: But aren’t we all born under the sun?  Can we truly trade one life for another so easily?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Don’t understand me, my dear:  Even the most vulnerable vessel has value if used properly.  -Someone- is providing the bread for all the circus goers!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NALIA: All life has value?  I never thought I’d hear -that- from a Drow!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Oh, -trust- me my dear. Surely, a god has more merit than a gauth or a gibberling, and a man is mightier than an ant but meeker than a dragon - a typical man, that is.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NALIA: So you’re saying all life has value and everyone is just playing their parts?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Aye?  (From here.)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: But there’s one triumphant truth in -all- life:  Greater power -always- wins.  That’s why it is -so satisfying- to see a superior species struggle when it is undone by an underdog.
If Nalia & Baeloth are in the party - second dialog
NALIA: Baeloth, I still don’t know your stance about how I feel about the poor.  So many people are against it.  Even my own family has doubted me.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Let me lay it out for you this way, my dear:  You have your pets and I have mine.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NALIA: The poor are just -pets- to you?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Yes.  You throw them some food, devise them a new dwelling, clean up their waste, and feel fine for the charity that came about at your hand.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: They’re like darling dogs to you:  They bark at you when they’re cold or hot or hungry or afraid or danger draws near.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: You want all the diminutive dirty peasants to praise you when big mama Noble Nalia draws near and doles out some desirable outcome like a guard dog getting a grilled steak.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-- 
BAELOTH: You have -all- the keys to their kennels and do enough to ensure they don’t depose you.  If they do, their lot in life can’t change much:  They’re poor, they’re weak, and they’re -absolutely adamant- about being in charge when they have nothing in their noggins but nonsensical notions!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: You can -try- to change them, but -they will never be noble!-  A shiny new settlement or a bigger bed won’t warp them into warriors or wizards - ones you -could- and -should- be courting.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NALIA: Wait!  What?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: No invading army is amply agitated by ascetic agrarians.  Warriors?  Wizards?  They keep your home -yours.-  Not some fleabag farmer.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NALIA: But... shouldn’t we try to elevate the status of the poor so they -become- the wizards and warriors you mentioned?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Perhaps, my girl.  Perhaps.  But at what cost?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NALIA: It all comes down to money and priorities then, doesn’t it?  We can save our lands from outside invaders by just staying with the old system, or risk losing it all to pay to bring more people up from poverty and train them to be more useful to society.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Totally true, my perceptive princess!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NALIA: Then what should I do?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: -Embrace- your position!  Don’t be afraid that others may die.  You’re a noble:  That’s your duty and maybe your delight!
If Nalia & Baeloth are in the party - third dialog
NALIA: Baeloth, if you were to seriously try to help the poor improve, what would you do?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Oh, my curious compatriot, I am -so- satisfied you asked!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Finding the worthiest warriors is easy:  Surround yourself with the strongest bodies available then demand they duel to the death in duets!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NALIA: That’s so cruel!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: It’s -compassionate- compared to conquerors who care not of what you call ‘kind.’  Survival of the strongest is simple, my dear, and the ‘luckiest’ will live.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-- 
NALIA: I... hate to admit it, Baeloth, but you have a point.  I did rush to the Copper Coronet because de’Arnise Hold was conquered by trolls who didn’t care what happened to the inhabitants.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Casters demand more training and tutelage from an early age, even if their sorcerous skills manifest meteors from temper tantrums.  An open-air arena duel to the death won’t do.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NALIA: What should be done?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Use your noble noggin!  What does your nation need now and later?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NALIA: Thanks, but how do you know all this?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Being Baeloth the Entertainer and Baeloth the Battlemaster meant my domain was a covert blood sport.  It’s so similar to leading a surface nation, except your combatants are conquerors and you fight to survive instead of entirely to entertain.
BG2: NEERA/BAELOTH BANTER
If Neera & Baeloth are in the party
BAELOTH: Neera, sometimes I envy you.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NEERA: Me?  Why?  Is it my pink hair and inability to grow a beard?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: No, no.  Nothing that trite.  Your affinity for Wild Magic is admirable.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NEERA: Really?  Because much of the time people around me leave me feeling really, really sorry that this tangled strand of the Weave chose me!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: That’s -exactly- why sometimes I envy you.  Your magic is inherently -chaotic.-  Every ‘mistake’ in your casting - your positioning, your timing, your choice of spells - has an inherent layer of plausible deniability.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-- 
NEERA: Are you saying Wild Magic is -good- for me?  Because you’d probably be the first!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Whether Wild Magic is good for you is debatable, but the fact that you cannot entirely control your powers means that some ‘accidents’ can be staged and fewer people can blame you directly for them.  It’s like adding an extra roll of the dice to every spell you cast instead of just picking the result you want.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NEERA: You mean bluffing with my spellcasting?  That’s... Huh.  I don’t know how I should say this.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Then don’t.  You know enough already.
BG2: RASAAD/BAELOTH BANTER
If Rasaad & Baeloth are in the party
RASAAD: Why do you look at me so curiously, Baeloth?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: I.  Don’t.  Get.  You.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
RASAAD: What do you mean?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: You prance around nearly naked with - at most - a modicum of magical might manifest.  However do you handle yourself and -live?-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
RASAAD: You are not the first to ask such a question.  While my monastic training was never intended to make me a wizard, I learned martial arts well enough that many of my feats are preternatural or even seemingly supernatural in origin.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-- 
BAELOTH: So you say.  (From here.)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
RASAAD: Why are you surprised?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: My research revealed - and rightly so - that living so scantily clad is, to use an aphorism from the Underdark - roughly translated - “asking for a smacking.”  By my counts, you should be dismembered, dead, disintegrated, disillusioned, depressed, or at the very least, discouraged!  Yet, here you are, determined!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
RASAAD: What does your research about the Underdark reveal about the attitude of, “Try harder?”
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Eloquence and efficiency are the antithesis of effort in execution.  Trying is for training.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
RASAAD: Are you saying that I am disadvantaged because I have trained more diligently and put forth a more maximal effort than you to master your innate magical powers?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: An interesting insight, but not inherently.  No, you straddle the gap between the mundane and the magical, but lack the sorcerous skills of a caster and the warrior’s well-armed and well-armored ways.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
RASAAD: Ah, now I understand you.  I confuse you because my monastic training makes me seem like a paradox.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Precisely my point!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
RASAAD: Well, I shall consider ways to make my superior feats of athleticism and acrobatics acceptable to us - and any audience we aim to impress.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Your accentuation excites me.  Perhaps I shall accept you as my apprentice - at least in all things auditory.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
RASAAD: I thank you for your offer, Baeloth, but I shall follow my own path for now.
ToB: SARADAS/BAELOTH BANTER
If Saradas & Baeloth are in the party
BAELOTH: Your subtle sagacity surprises me, old man.  You devise many new spells and yet you’ve -refused- to use your renown to advertise your ability!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SARADAS: Baeloth, I have been content creating these spells for myself and those whom I trust.  Leave Mordenkainen, Elminster, and other famous casters to their works.  They sought fame, but I have been satisfied with a shut-in scholarly and simple life.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: How?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SARADAS: I devoted myself to magic as a Priest of Lathander from an early age.  I wanted to help others be free of their afflictions.  Ultimately, when I realized I could do more for my patients and to further my curious studies, I switched to learning wizardry.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-- 
BAELOTH: But a man of -your- talents deserves to be doing great deeds, not rotting away in some forsaken fane!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SARADAS: Yes, Baeloth.  I agree.  That’s why when I heard the uproar about Amn and the Bhaalspawn situation, I could wait no longer.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Delaying decades to act?  On a human, that’s downright -delirious!-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SARADAS: Perhaps, Baeloth, but it is what it is.
BG2: SAREVOK/BAELOTH BANTER
If Sarevok & Baeloth are in the party
SAREVOK: Drow, the more I know you the more I wish I had found you sooner.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Ooh!  What wonderful words!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SAREVOK: I sought conquer and death on a massive scale to bring about the return of my true father - Bhaal, Lord of Murder.  You sought to conquer nations to exploit their slaves for entertainment.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: -Nations?-  Nah.  I was jolly enough with just surly slaves and gladiators glad to get another round to fight.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: But since you mentioned it, the sweet song of conquest to erect an entertainment empire entices me!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-- 
SAREVOK: You may still get your wish.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Yes, yes.  Nation against nation!  Godling against godling!  All of them battle boldly to determine who brings Daddy Bhaal back.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SAREVOK: Drow, you assume that -all- Bhaalspawn want this.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Is that not your nature?  The nature of a dog is to love steaks, but it’ll settle for bones so long as they keep its mouth busy.  You Bhaalspawn want to -murder- each other, but may settle for something else - diplomacy, dancing, or drunkenness.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SAREVOK: Drow, you have a point.
BG2: VALYGAR/BAELOTH BANTER
If Valygar & Baeloth are in the party
VALYGAR: Drow, your very presence in this group offends me!  You are birthed into evil, and I sense magical talent in your blood!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Ooh!  Tell me something I haven’t heard!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VALYGAR: What?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Look, Valygar, I get you.  You think that magic is like farting:  It’s so, -so- bad when others do it, but if you do it, it’s -totally- justified!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VALYGAR: That is not at ALL what I said!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-- 
BAELOTH: I’ve heard your whimperings and murmurings about how magic is vile and relying on magic makes you weak.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VALYGAR: ‘Whimperings?’  What am I, your dog?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Let me offer you the -majority- opinion in this case:  This -world- is made by and from magic.  Your very -life- has been touched by the supernatural, and your mind -twisted- it into evil!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VALYGAR: What spells have I cast-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Spells?  Did I -claim- you were a caster, Valygar?  No?  Good!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: You want to fight casters?  You need better -magical- defenses to survive, lest you become a chicken, a mind slave, or a pile of ash!  You need better -magical- weaponry to hurt them -and- their minions!  And I don’t think you want to wait -weeks- to recover from a fight when you could have some caster use a healing spell on you!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Life is a magical arms race, Valygar.  The only way to avoid it is to stay out of it and hope your side wins.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VALYGAR: <Valygar’s face contorts into one of hesitant resignation.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VALYGAR: I... see.  Do not think my stance will change so drastically nor as soon as you hope, Drow!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Life is -quite- the expedient teacher!
BG2: VICONIA/BAELOTH BANTER
If Viconia & Baeloth are in the party
VICONIA: What are you scheming now, -male?-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: The sutures from your staking haven’t fully healed.  I’m -so sorry- for that set of unfortunate circumstances.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VICONIA: Your tone sounds mocking.  It’s hard for me to believe you’re sincere.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: We’ve each been usurped from the Underdark, forced to flee to the surface for sustenance.  We’ve thrived in ways those underground thought we never would!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VICONIA: Do you have a point beyond mere conversation?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-- 
BAELOTH: Certainly, my inquisitive one:  The Drow of the Underdark seemed stifled in their lifestyle.  Expansion to the surface is a logical leap of progress.  I suspect it would shrink their desire to be bound in age-old blood feuds.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VICONIA: More Drow living well on the surface?  Have you forgotten how much we have been assaulted by others just because of who we are by birth?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Not one bit.  I’ve been beaten, burned, shipwrecked, stoned, buried, and endured excrutiations far -beyond- what anyone should -ever- aim to endure!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VICONIA: What’s your point?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: If those in the Underdark could quit bickering long enough to leave their low-light dwellings, they could step outside and find a -new- world to dominate!  We are well-versed in age-old feuds:  We’d merely be -finishing- what our progenitors’ prejudices began ages ago!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VICONIA: I’m not here to make even -more- enemies for me to amuse you, even if it helps our race somehow in a later generation!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Suit yourself.
BG2: VOLO/BAELOTH BANTER
If Volo & Baeloth are in the party
VOLO: A Drow on the surface that -isn’t- Drizzt?  You’re a rare bird.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Of the most valuable variety, I assure you.  I am Baeloth, the Entertainer, premier purveyor of entertainment in the realms!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: As a Bard myself, I would -love- to hear your most impressive tales!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Oh, I am a showman but I am no Bard!  Don’t depend on your darling Drow here to sing you a ditty nor dazzle you with dancing.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Then what are your areas of entertainment expertise?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-- 
BAELOTH: My style is only the finest of fancies - organized warfare, and delightful duels to the death!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Organized warfare?  That sounds... dangerous!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: If the world’s a stage, it is one glorious, -gorious- fight scene after fight scene with nation against nation and brother against brother in a drama like no other!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Life -loves- violence, Volo.  Life -loves- violence!  May as well capitalize on the conflict and corpses!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Well, I suppose many historical wars would agree with your worldview.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Oh, most certainly so!
BG2: WILSON/BAELOTH BANTER
If Wilson & Baeloth are in the party
BAELOTH: I’ve let slip the dogs of war and heard of bear baiting, but a friendly bear?  What shall I do with you?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
WILSON: <Wilson snorfles.>  (From here.)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: You’re akin to a Dire Dog with an enormous appetite and fewer oral displays of affection.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
WILSON: <Wilson snorts then snorts again.>  (From here.)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-- 
BAELOTH: An obvious implementation of your unique ursine ability would be to properly prepare you as a pit fighter.  Surely, you could satisfactorily shoulder such a shift!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
WILSON: <Wilson whines.>  (From here.)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Worry not, my warrior.  We can call you, “The Ursine Usurper!”  Eating opponents’ innards is optional, obviously, however ostentatious.
BG2: XZAR/BAELOTH BANTER
If Xzar & Baeloth are in the party
BAELOTH: Xzar, I think we do well together.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
XZAR: Hmm?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: With my gift for gladiatorial fights to the death and your knack for necromancy, nothing goes to waste!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: As I once heard a Lich say, “Reduce, reuse, reanimate!”
BG2: YOSHIMO/BAELOTH BANTER
If Yoshimo & Baeloth are in the party
BAELOTH: Ooh!  What wondrous delights did you bring us for dinner?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
YOSHIMO: What do you mean, Baeloth?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Look at all those tricky toy traps you use!  Did you get us some bear?  Behir?  Beholder?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
YOSHIMO: I see, Baeloth.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: I do, too.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-- 
YOSHIMO: But, no.  I don’t normally try to catch animals or creatures of the night to eat.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: What would you prefer to trigger your traps?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
YOSHIMO: I’m a bounty hunter.  I catch men.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: A hopeless romantic?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
YOSHIMO: <Yoshimo sighs and shakes his head.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Ah, so you’re one of -those- mancatchers!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
YOSHIMO: What’s your point?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Well, as a battlemaster and purveyor of violent entertainment throughout the Underdark, Sword Coast, and beyond in the form of THE BLACK PITS, I need a notable number of neutralized nobodies to fatten the ranks of our gladiators.  You seem like my man for the mission.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
YOSHIMO: Duels to the death, I assume?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Oh, yes!  -Evisceration- makes for the most -electrifying- entertainment!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
YOSHIMO: Then I charge extra because of the complications.  Bringing criminals to justice is one thing, but trapping men knowing they’ll likely die fighting each other?  Well, I have a reputation to uphold!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: You play the part of a professional.  How delightful.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
YOSHIMO: What are your terms?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: <Baeloth grins at Yoshimo.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Let’s deal, my friend.
BG2: ZAKRION/BAELOTH BANTER
If Zakrion & Baeloth are in the party
ZAKRION: Drow, what are you doing with my sea charts?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: I was simply amidst surmising where I was shipwrecked.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ZAKRION: You on the open ocean?  I thought your kind was at home in the dark, not on the waves!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX-- 
BAELOTH: Oh, trust me, my seafaring star, I was -not- at home on the open ocean.  I was amidst acquiring aquatic adversaries for an arena event.  Aboleths were an especially aggravating adversary to capture quickly.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ZAKRION: Aboleths?  You’re braver than I!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: ‘Brave’ -is- a beneficial term for it.  ‘Bound by blood sacrifice to fulfill my oath to my benefactor’ was a better suited term.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ZAKRION: You’re a caster.  Why even use a ship when you can warp there?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Dimension Door and Teleport demand I know -precisely- where to pinpoint my transposition, lest I be punished and pulverized by being partially in a particularly solid surface!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ZAKRION: How... unfortunate.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: And no, there -was- no sunken treasure.  I’m glad you never asked.
-=HULL PARTY BANTER=-
ALL: INITIAL PARTY MEMBER & CELEBRITY CHARACTER MEETINGS
Hull has a bit of dialog when meeting most or all vanilla recruitable NPCs.  As a guard for Candlekeep, he’s been trained to quickly judge characters and is intended to provide an in-character first impression of each relevant NPC before they join.
        Hull does his ‘sense motive’ on each recruitable NPC once - the first time the party has Hull in the party when talking with that NPC.  For example, if the party dropped Hull in BG1 but recruited Minsc, then brought Hull back into the party, the dialog would trigger.  The same dialog would also trigger if Hull were in the party with <CHARNAME> when meeting a recruitable NPC for the first time, like Edwin.
        Various mods exist to port BG1 & SoD NPCs into BG2.  Maybe the first time in an EET game the party finds Safana is in BG2 due to The Darkest Day or BG1 NPCs in BG2 or Safana in Amn.
ALL: MEETING AERIE FOR THE FIRST TIME
NOTE: This applies primarily to BG2, but Aerie in BG1 exists.  (The linked version is Roxanne’s unofficial EET updated version.)
Before Initial Meeting with Aerie (Avariel Form)
HULL: <Hull leans in toward you and whispers.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, she, uh, looks like a good sort, but seems kinda ‘vacant in the brain.’
What makes you say that?
HULL: Look at ‘er, kid!  She’s just staring awkwardly into space!
Hull, I’m not into the spacey types.  Let’s leave.
HULL: Onward, then.  <End Dialog>
Hull, maybe she’s smarter than she looks.  I’d rather talk to her.
HULL: <Hull shrugs.>
<End dialog with Hull.  Begin dialog with Aerie.>
ALL: AERIE/HULL BANTER
NOTE: This applies primarily to BG2, but Aerie in BG1 exists.  (The linked version is Roxanne’s unofficial EET updated version.)
If Aerie and Hull are in the party
HULL: Aerie?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AERIE: Yes, Hull?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Why the vacant stares into space?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AERIE: Oh, I kept looking up, remembering the skies.  My heart knows who I am and how I long to return!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thanks.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AERIE: Hull, what did you think it was?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Uh... I’d rather not say.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AERIE: Please tell me, Hull.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Uh... I thought you were cross-eyed and trying -really- hard not to be.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AERIE: <Aerie smiles, sighs, and giggles.>
If Aerie and Hull are in the party after Aerie is a witch
HULL: Aerie!  Minsc calls you his new witch!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AERIE: That’s right.  He thinks highly of me.  What about you, Hull?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Better to be liked for being a witch than hunted!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Minsc is in the party.>
MINSC: Minsc and Boo agree!  It is our job to protect our favorite witch, yes?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Of course!  We guard each other!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AERIE: Thanks!  We’ll help each other, whatever happens!
ALL: MEETING AFAAQ FOR THE FIRST TIME
Before Initial Meeting with Afaaq
HULL: <Hull leans in toward you and whispers.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, that genie looks friendly.  Let’s go talk to him and maybe deal in wishes!
What makes you say that?
HULL: I’m bein’ hopeful here, kid.
Hull, I’d rather take the cautious route and avoid this genie.  Let’s leave.
HULL: Please?
Oh, alright.  We’ll meet him.
HULL: Thanks, kid.  <End Dialog with Hull.  Begin dialog with Afaaq.>
I said no.
HULL: <Hull looks at you disappointedly.>  <END DIALOG.>
Let’s talk to him.
HULL: I know what -I- want for my first wish!  Get ready with your list!
<End dialog with Hull.  Begin dialog with Afaaq.>
Hull, we’ll take our chance on this genie being friendly.  Let’s talk!
HULL: <Hull just smiles widely and joyfully.>
<End dialog with Hull.  Begin dialog with Afaaq.>
ALL: AFAAQ/HULL BANTER
If Afaaq and Hull are in the party
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Sometimes, I wish Gorion were here.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AFAAQ: Careful with your words around my kind, human.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I know.  I know.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AFAAQ: <Afaaq smiles smugly toward Hull.>  Then act upon this knowledge.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Would you wish him back?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AFAAQ: I refuse to answer that, human.  You already know what you want.
ALL: MEETING AJANTIS FOR THE FIRST TIME
Before Initial Meeting with Ajantis
HULL: <Hull leans in toward you and whispers.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: He seems trustworthy.  Go ahead, kid.
What makes you say that?
HULL: I feel inspired just -being- around him!  He’s probably a Priest or a Paladin.
You know what?  Nevermind.
HULL: Your loss, kid.  <End Dialog>
Gotchya.  Let’s talk to him.
HULL: Good.
<End dialog with Hull.  Begin dialog with Ajantis.>
ALL: AJANTIS/HULL BANTER
If Ajantis and Hull are in the party
AJANTIS: Hull, you normally seemed good-spirited!  What seems to be troubling you?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Ajantis, I was concerned for you.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AJANTIS: Concerned for me?  Whatever do you mean, my warrior friend?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Your spirit shines in you, and that’s why I wanted to travel with you, but I was concerned you were becoming the tyrant you wanted to stop.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AJANTIS: Those are... strong words!  Speak swiftly and declare your intentions!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Maybe you know this, but the guy in charge of Candlekeep is called Ulraunt.  He has the power and the legal right to his far corner of the world, and he kept acting like he was the supreme being of the castle.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But no one there liked him.  I don’t know if -he- liked himself.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: When we got visitors, some of them mistook him for another sage of about the same age for Ulraunt.  This other guy is called Tethtoril, and he’s loving and kind and people liked him.  He never flaunted his position, but those in Candlekeep found him easy to trust.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AJANTIS: What is your point, Hull?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You can hate evil, but please be patient and kind with those around you.  If you want less evil in the world, love others and help them to -want- to be good just like you.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I know patience is sometimes the hardest thing to do.  I’ve been there when some caster or noble screamed the curses of a thousand languages at me for not reading his mind.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I also know that being patient means handling whatever mistakes you make, like trying to wake on time for guard duty after drinking the night away.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: That’s what Tethtoril would say, anyway.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AJANTIS: <Ajantis narrows his gaze at Hull in contemplation.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AJANTIS: Are you calling me a religious fanatic?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Only if you wanna be called one.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AJANTIS: <Ajantis proudly snorts.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You know who you are and what your mission is.  You like it.  We get that.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AJANTIS: <Ajantis smiles proudly.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Just be careful you don’t scare away people or cause more trouble than you fix with yer attitude.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AJANTIS: Out of respect for you, Hull, I will consider it.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thanks.
ALL: MEETING ALORA FOR THE FIRST TIME
Before Initial Meeting with Alora
HULL: <Hull leans in toward you and whispers.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Careful, kid.  She’s cute but acts like a thief, and I’ve seen -plenty- of those!
What makes you say that?
HULL: -Every- Halfling is a thief until proven otherwise.
You’re right.  I won’t.  Let’s leave.
HULL: Alright, kid.  <End Dialog>
C’mon!  Let’s talk to this pink-haired short girl!
HULL: Kid, I trust your judgment.
<End dialog with Hull.  Begin dialog with Alora.>
ALL: ALORA/HULL BANTER
If Alora and Hull are in the party
ALORA: Hull, you’re big and strong like a ship, right?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You got it!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ALORA: When are you gonna pick me up and let me ride on your shoulders?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull looks curiously at Alora.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ALORA: It’ll be like I’m an acrobat riding a ship’s mast!  And you can hold me to make sure I don’t fall!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull smiles and laughs at Alora.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ALORA: You’re cute, Hull.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You too are cute.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ALORA: So, when’s the ship ride, Hull?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Later, girl.
BG2: MEETING ANOMEN FOR THE FIRST TIME
Before Initial Meeting with Anomen
HULL: <Hull leans in toward you and whispers.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: He looks like a Cleric-Knight, kid.  He’s probably safe to talk to.
What makes you say that?
HULL: I’ve seen that holy symbol on his armor somewhere, kid.  My mind blanked on what it is, though.
Hull, you’re enough of a knight for me.  We’ll pass for now on this other guy.
HULL: Well, if you say so.  <End Dialog>
You seem to trust him.  I’ll trust him too.
HULL: Sure, kid.
<End dialog with Hull.  Begin dialog with Anomen.>
ALL: ANOMEN/HULL BANTER
If Anomen and Hull are in the party AND Hull hasn’t finished his knighthood quest AND Anomen didn’t fail his knighthood test
HULL: Anomen, what’s it like being around your order?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ANOMEN: It is a prestigious order devoted to Helm and those aligned with him.  Why do you ask, Hull?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I’ve been wanting to join.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ANOMEN: Have you too felt the call of Helm?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Maybe.  Joining your order seems like a challenge, but also a cause worth living for.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ANOMEN: If you are prepared for the difficulties and persecutions for the sake of righteousness, then I am for you, Hull.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thanks.
If Anomen and Hull are in the party AND Anomen failed his knighthood test
HULL: Anomen, I’m... sorry about what happened.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ANOMEN: <Anomen looks sternly at Hull.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ANOMEN: It is a disgrace to man to need to choose between duty and family and entrust sometimes uncertain justice into the hands of another when you have felt the strong call to do it yourself.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull looks uncomfortably at Anomen.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ANOMEN: Did you bring up that old wound to gloat over my indiscretion, Hull?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: No.  I still respect you, even if it’s for a different reason.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ANOMEN: And what is that?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You acted fast to help your family.  I dunno if I would’ve done the same, but you still have your family.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull has passed his knighthood test.>
ANOMEN: You - a knight of my former order - respect me for my rash actions when even my teacher Keldorn scorned me?  Why?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull hasn’t passed his knighthood test.>
ANOMEN: And you, an aspirant of my former order - respect me for my rash actions when even my teacher Keldorn scorned me?  Why?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Because I know what it’s like to do what you think is right, only for those you trusted to treat you like a stranger for it.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I left Candlekeep to protect Gorion’s kid after he was brutally murdered.  Then Candlekeep’s strict rules turned my friends into scared bystanders who’d rather keep their rules than help their friend.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ANOMEN: Was this sacrifice worthwhile to you, Hull?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: For me?  Yeah.  I didn’t have much else to live for ‘n’ I -knew- I was just wastin’ away in that gilded cage.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But I know you lived by your heart instead of the law.  Was it worth it?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ANOMEN: That... remains to be seen.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ANOMEN: Thank you, Hull.  I will contemplate the weight of your words.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You do that.
If Anomen and Hull are in the party AND Hull hasn’t finished his knighthood quest AND Anomen passed his knighthood test
HULL: Anomen, was your knighthood worth it?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ANOMEN: Despite the trials and tribulations, I remembered that it was for this reason Keldorn took an interest in me.  Something inspired me to want to validate his faith in me.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I’ll take that as a yes.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ANOMEN: Have you too felt the call of Helm?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Maybe.  Joining your order seems like a challenge, but also a cause worth living for.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ANOMEN: If you are prepared for the difficulties and persecutions for the sake of righteousness, then I am for you, Hull.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thanks.
If Anomen and Hull are in the party AND Hull has finished his knighthood quest AND Anomen passed his knighthood test
HULL: Well, we’re officially brothers in arms -and- fellow order members!  Good job!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Keldorn is in the party.>
KELDORN: Yes!  Well done to each of you!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ANOMEN: Though our walks in life differ, I am glad my trust in you is further validated, Hull.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Yeah.  Mine too.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: So, should we drink to our success?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Keldorn is in the party.>
KELDORN: It is better that we be sober to focus on spiritual matters.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull looks curiously at Keldorn.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Well, since you say so.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Keldorn isn’t in the party.>
ANOMEN: I appreciate the sentiment, but if Keldorn were here, I believe he would say, “Let us then be sober and so better be focused on spiritual matters.”
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull looks curiously at Anomen.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Well, since you say so.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Onward, team!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Ajantis is in the party.>
AJANTIS: To honor and victory!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Keldorn is in the party.>
KELDORN: To a long life for us, filled with many, many good days!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Yeah!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ANOMEN: For the glory of Helm!
ALL: MEETING ARTEMIS ENTRERI (BG1, BG2) FOR THE FIRST TIME FOR HIM TO JOIN THE PARTY OR IF HULL & ARTEMIS ARE IN THE PARTY TOGETHER
Before Initial Meeting with Artemis
HULL: Kid, that guy’s Artemis Entreri!  He wants Drizzt dead!  Let’s kill him before that happens!
Hull, that’s abrupt!
HULL: I know, but he probably isn’t expecting me to do it like this!
Hull, let’s kill the bastard!
HULL: Good!  <Artemis turns hostile to the party.  End Dialog.>
Hull, I’d rather not get involved.
HULL: Well -I- would!  Help kill him, kid, or just stay odda my way!  Drizzt would agree!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Drizzt is in the party.>
HULL: C’mon, Drizzt!  Let’s kill this fiend!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: Certainly, Hull!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<Regardless of whether Drizzt is in the party.>
HULL: Artemis, time to die for hunting Drizzt!  <Artemis turns hostile to Hull and, if present, also Drizzt, Bruenor, Catti-Brie, Wulfgar, and Regis.  End Dialog.>
[If the party also includes Bruenor Battlehammer, Catti-Brie, Drizzt, Regis, or/and Wulfgar] Artemis!  I delivered your enemy into your hands!
HULL: BETRAYAL!  <Hull, Bruenor Battlehammer, Catti-Brie, Drizzt, Regis, and Wulfgar - if in the party - turn hostile to the party.  End Dialog.>
ALL: MEETING AURA FOR THE FIRST TIME
Before Initial Meeting with Aura
HULL: <Hull leans in toward you and whispers.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: -She- looks different, kid!  She might be a sneak thief, but her different-colored hair got my attention!
What makes you say that?
HULL: Most thieves don’t wear goggles or have brightly-colored hair, kid.
She’s too different for me.  Let’s leave.
HULL: <Hull shrugs.>  <End Dialog>
Let’s talk to this ‘different’ girl, Hull!
HULL: I’m with ya, kid.
<End dialog with Hull.  Begin dialog with Aura.>
ALL: AURA/HULL BANTER
If Aura and Hull are in the party - First Banter
HULL: Aura, I’m sorry I underestimated you.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AURA: <Aura looks at Hull with her hands on her hips and raises an eyebrow at him.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AURA: Is this a short joke?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Not at all!  Yer a mechanical genius!  I wanna learn this!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AURA: <Aura smirks.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AURA: I’m not in a mood to share.  Besides, it’s too dangerous for anyone else to handle.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull frowns.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Aww!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Why?  I’m already your bodyguard!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AURA: My stuff has a lot of moving parts.  It isn’t just a simple sword, Hull.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AURA: Touch it the wrong way and you’ll be missing some fingers or some limbs.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: That’s what training’s for!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AURA: <Aura looks firmly at Hull and shakes her head.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AURA: Not this time, Hull.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
Second Banter
HULL: So, what’s our little genius thinking about now?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AURA: <Aura raises her eyebrows at Hull then puts her arms against her sides in protest.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You’re lookin’ like a hero there!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AURA: <Aura smirks.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You were saying.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AURA: Hull, I’ve been thinking about how to make better explosives.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull raises his eyebrow at Aura.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Explosives?  
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Why?  I’m already your bodyguard!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AURA: My stuff has a lot of moving parts.  It isn’t just a simple sword, Hull.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AURA: Touch it the wrong way and you’ll be missing some fingers or some limbs.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: That’s what training’s for!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AURA: <Aura looks firmly at Hull and shakes her head.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
AURA: Not this time, Hull.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
ALL: MEETING BAELOTH FOR THE FIRST TIME
Before Initial Meeting with Baeloth
HULL: <Hull leans in toward you and whispers.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: A Drow caster?  Here?!  Yeah...  This is gonna go -very poorly- or -very well- for us.
What makes you say that?
HULL: Drow are just -trouble,- kid.  But he looks like a caster, so just play nice for now if you talk to him.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And if he wants to join, I’ll keep a close watch on him.
You know what?  Nevermind.
HULL: That might be for the best.  <End Dialog>
Well, here we go!
HULL: Good luck, kid.
<End dialog with Hull.  Begin dialog with Baeloth.>
ALL: BAELOTH/HULL BANTER
If Baeloth and Hull are in the party
HULL: Baeloth, you have been the best bard I’ve ever known!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Garrick is in the party.>
GARRICK: How uncouth of you.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Haer’Dalis is in the party.>
HAER’DALIS: To each his own, my raven.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If CHARNAME is a Bard.>
You’re my friend!  You’re meant to say that -I’m- the best bard you know!
HULL: I could say I’m sorry, kid, but Baeloth’s gotcha beat.
Alright, Hull.  You have a point.
HULL: <Hull smiles and winks at <CHARNAME>.>
I disagree, Hull.
HULL: Then we disagree.
No comment, Hull.
HULL: <Hull shrugs.>
<Regardless, continue with the dialog below.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: And you, Hull, have been amusing yourself.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull smiles.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: ‘Bard’ often has such a negative connotation to it, like some foppy fancy pants who can carry a tune but is just -asking- to be -shut up- with a well-placed arrow to the knee!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Whereas I am a sorcerer, and Baeloth the Entertainer, purveyor of the finest fighting delights!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: If all drow were as entertaining as you, Baeloth, there’d be a -lot- more peace between the races.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Then it is the finest of fortunates this is not so!  For who then would fight for glory for our amusement?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I’m pretty sure you could find someone.  Trust me.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: You, Hull, might make an -excellent- entry onto the roster!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Keep that as a mental note.  We ain’t there yet.
ALL: MEETING BRANWEN FOR THE FIRST TIME
Before Initial Meeting with Branwen
HULL: <Hull leans in toward you and whispers.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Huh.  I wasn’t expecting her to look like a witch.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: She seems fine, but let’s go check on her, kid.
You know what?  Nevermind.
HULL: Your loss, kid.  <End Dialog>
Sure.  I’ll check on her.
HULL: Alright, kid.
<End dialog with Hull.  Begin dialog with Branwen.>
ALL: BRANWEN/HULL BANTER
If Branwen and Hull are in the party
HULL: <Hull looks at Branwen uncomfortably.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Uh...
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BRANWEN: What’s wrong, Hull?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Every time I look your way, it seems like you’re blowing me a kiss.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BRANWEN: <Branwen smiles and chuckles softly.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: There!  You just did it!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BRANWEN: So what if I did?  You’re a fun one to tease.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: So -that’s- what it was!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BRANWEN: <Branwen playfully smiles at Hull.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull smiles as he raises his eyebrow toward Branwen.>
SOD/EET: MEETING CAELAR ARGENT FOR THE FIRST TIME FOR RECRUITMENT
Before Initial Meeting with Caelar
HULL: <Hull leans in toward you and whispers.>
Kid, I want to say to trust her because she’s The Shining Lady, but are you gonna be quick to forgive her for all the trouble she caused us?
Maybe I can persuade her to -help- us instead of -hurting- us.
HULL: <Hull sighs.>  Kid, if yer gonna do it, then do it.
Hull, let me handle this.
HULL: I’m with ya, kid.  <End Dialog>
<End dialog with Hull.  Begin dialog with Caelar.>
ALL: CAELAR/HULL BANTER
If Caelar and Hull are in the party
HULL: You’re an aasimar?  I haven’t met many of them.  What’s it like?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CAELAR: What’s it like being human, Hull?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Pretty common around the realms.  Why?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CAELAR: Then be glad, human, that you are not burdened by the universal assumptions of morality and supposition that plague the common minds.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Try that again in plainer words.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CAELAR: It is easier to hate those from the upper planes for being who they are than fiends from the lower planes for being what they are.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I’m listening.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CAELAR: When a fiend acts like a fiend, few are surprised.  When one of my kind executes righteous judgment, it seems all of creation is appalled!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Y’know, you -could- just talk with people and inspire them to want to change.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CAELAR: The lower planes advance their cause every day and even as we speak, Hull!  It is my sacred duty to -swiftly- prevent that!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Lady, I’ve been around casters ‘n’ nobles with their heads stuck so far up their asses that all they know is their own shit.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Yer headed that direction.  Don’t be like them.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CAELAR: And do -you- believe you know better than the heavens, Hull?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: The heavens?  No.  You?  Right now?  Yeah.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CAELAR: I’ll not be judged by the likes of you!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And -who- thought she was -so very right- that not even the most -powerful Bhaalspawn on the Sword Coast- could stand up to her?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CAELAR: <Caelar glares at Hull.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: At least we’re on the same side after all that.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Let’s face it:  You were wrong, you learned your lesson, and we’re all better now.  I give ya that.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CAELAR: And Hull, you are -not- the lost cause I originally -thought- you would be.  I give -you- that.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull sighs and reluctantly smiles.>
BG2: MEETING CERND FOR THE FIRST TIME
Before Initial Meeting with Cernd
HULL: <Hull leans in toward you and whispers.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: He looks like a Druid, kid.  People at the Copper Coronet said Druids aren’t well-liked in these parts.
HULL: <Hull shrugs.>
I’m not liking his Druid vibes, Hull.  Maybe later.
HULL: Your call, kid.  <End Dialog>
Let’s give him the benefit of the doubt, Hull.
HULL: That’s probably best, kid.
<End dialog with Hull.  Begin dialog with Cernd.>
BG2: CERND/HULL BANTER
If Cernd and Hull are in the party
HULL: Cernd, I heard you were really into nature, even by druid standards.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CERND: <Cernd raises an eyebrow at Hull but responds cordially.>  Hull, that is likely correct.  What do you mean?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: What qualifies as ‘nature?’
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CERND: We know nature as the babbling brook, the animals throughout the plains and forests, and the delicate ecosystems that allow life as we know it to live.  This is what many would call the balance of nature, and it is my life’s calling to serve it.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: OK.  I get that.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Are deserts part of nature?  What about the frozen parts of Icewind Dale?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CERND: Of course!  They are each delicate ecosystems, each different from the plains and forests, unspoiled by the advance of civilization.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Is the Underdark nature?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CERND: An odd question, but I suppose an underground ecosystem is also nature.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: What about other planes, like the Plane of Shadow or Plane of Fire or Sigil?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Or is nature just the parts of the outside we like and can reshape or harvest?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CERND: <Cernd looks at Hull quietly as he contemplates.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Is a contained bonfire in a forest nature?  What about in a fireplace in an inn?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: If a caster just magics up a new forest, is that nature?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Because it seems like ‘nature’ normally means ‘where the pretty trees are and buildings aren’t.’
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CERND: Hull, I must reflect on these things.  I must admit my preference has been dwelling outside under the stars in lush gardens or forests.  That is where my power has felt strongest.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CERND: It is not often I am asked to so clearly examine my beliefs.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Jaheira is in the party.>
JAHEIRA: All your questioning reminds me of Gorion’s insistence on defining everything down to the letter!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thanks.  I think.
Second Banter
HULL: I’ve been thinking more about our last talk, Cernd.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is a Druid.>
HULL: As a druid, I’ve had power over animals and plants, and if you call that ‘nature’ then I agree.  It’s a supernatural power over nature.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: There are plenty of druids who are also comfortable in civilization.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: My friend Jaheira’s a druid and she was waiting in an inn for my friend and mentor, Gorion.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Jaheira is in the party.>
JAHEIRA: <Jaheira nods.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Hull is a Druid, regardless of Jaheira’s presence in the party.>
HULL: As a druid, I’ve just -had- to be comfortable in civilization.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I grew up in Candlekeep.  It’s about as civilized as the Sword Coast gets.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Stopping Sarevok in Baldur’s Gate meant a -lotta- social interactions, and stopping his murderous rampage meant less resources went to war.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Sarevok is in the party.>
SAREVOK: <Sarevok glares at Hull.>  We are not here for an unpleasant reminder!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull smiles widely.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: So, druid or not, we can’t be afraid of civilization.  Or the wild.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CERND: I... see.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You can like camping outside ‘n’ other naturey things, but civilization affects nature.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Help fix the people and nature benefits!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CERND: It seems your mentor Gorion was quite a sage.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Yeah.  He was.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Jaheira is in the party.>
JAHEIRA: Cernd, I shall tell you more about Gorion, but another time.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CERND: <Cernd nods.>  Thank you.
BG2: MEETING CLARA FOR THE FIRST TIME
Before Initial Meeting with Clara
HULL: <Hull leans in toward you and whispers.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I heard her name was Clara.  She... didn’t seem in tune with reality.
HULL: Just listen to her talk, kid.
Hull, I don’t want her to space out on me.
HULL: She’s probably a liability, kid.  <End Dialog>
Maybe she’s a caster or some strange being in disguise.
HULL: You sure seemed adventurous, kid.
<End dialog with Hull.  Begin dialog with Clara.>
BG2: CLARA/HULL BANTER
If Clara and Hull are in the party
HULL: Clara, you seem... familiar.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CLARA: <Clara shrugs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Yeah!  I thought you were in jail with the Flaming Fist!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CLARA: Please... do not... reopen... old wounds.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull shrugs.>
ALL: MEETING CORAN FOR THE FIRST TIME
Before Initial Meeting with Coran
HULL: <Hull leans in toward you and whispers.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I didn’t expect a jester out here, kid.  He still might be a thief.
What makes you say that?
HULL: Just -look- at that mask.  Is that face paint?
I’m not in a mood to talk to him now.
HULL: Your choice.  <End Dialog>
Gotchya.  Let’s talk to him.
HULL: Beware of any corny jokes.
<End dialog with Hull.  Begin dialog with Coran.>
ALL: CORAN/HULL BANTER
If Coran and Hull are in the party
HULL: Coran, why dress like a jester?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CORAN: All the more to enjoy this adventure we call life, Hull.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You didn’t seem very funny to me.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CORAN: A jester can be entertaining without having to make anyone laugh.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Baeloth is in the party.>
BAELOTH: I wholeheartedly agree!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull shrugs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Not my style, then, Coran.
SOD/EET: MEETING CORWIN AKA CAPTAIN SCHAEL CORWIN FOR THE FIRST TIME FOR RECRUITMENT
Before Initial Meeting with Corwin
HULL: <Hull leans in toward you and whispers.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, she looks like a respectable lawman.  Guard.  Whatever.  Ready to serve the Flaming Fist?
You just -had- to use the Flaming Fist’s favorite line, didn’t you?
HULL: Sorry, kid.  I couldn’t resist!  <Hull smiles.>
Hull, I’d prefer your company to hers.  Let’s ignore her and move on.
HULL: Maybe later then, kid.  <End Dialog>
I’ll take your hint, Hull.  And we’ll talk with her.
HULL: Time to chat away, kid.
<End dialog with Hull.  Begin dialog with Corwin.>
ALL: CORWIN/HULL BANTER
If Corwin and Hull are in the party
CORWIN: Hull, I can tell you’re quite the devoted warrior.  When this war’s over, I could use you on the Flaming Fist.  I’d make sure you had a proper rank behind you.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thanks, Captain, but my answer is definitely ‘maybe.’
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CORWIN: You still plan to carry out your plans to look over Gorion’s child?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Yeah.  Baldur’s Gate is a great city, and maybe something that’ll be talked about for generations to come, but I know my role may not be to serve the Flaming Fist.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But if I’m gonna serve the Flaming Fist after this war’s over...
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CORWIN: You’d need to be ready for it.  Dedicated to it.  I know.  I’ve seen your look on the faces of many candidates.  Most don’t make it.
Second Banter
HULL: So, why do y’all -really- like to say the line, “Serve the Flaming Fist?”
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CORWIN: <Corwin smiles.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CORWIN: Hull, I think you know.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Yeah, but say it.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CORWIN: It’s like saying, “We come in the name of the king,” if we were the king’s guard.  It gets attention.  It marks us.  It means we mean business.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Yeah, but ‘serve?’  Not ‘surrender?’
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CORWIN: It’s different when -you’re- the one saying it.  Best not to think too hard on it, Hull.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Serve the Flaming Fist!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
CORWIN: <Corwin shrugs and sighs.>  Let’s go, Hull.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull nods.>
ALL: MEETING DORN FOR THE FIRST TIME
Before Initial Meeting with Dorn
HULL: <Hull leans in toward you and whispers.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: He looks like he’s got a grudge or a murderous side, kid.  Watch yer step.
What makes you say that?
HULL: Look at how he sneers and acts like he’s one blink away from just -killing- something.
I’ll heed your warning.
HULL: Good, kid.  I already feel better.  <End Dialog>
Let’s talk to him.
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
<End dialog with Hull.  Begin dialog with Dorn.>
ALL: DORN/HULL BANTER
If Dorn and Hull are in the party
DORN: You are a skilled warrior, human.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thanks.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DORN: Yes.  You were born in a prestigious place - Candlekeep as you have said.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull nods.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DORN: Why not go and conquer more territory in the name of your glorious homeland?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Candlekeep doesn’t -need- more territory.  It’s one of the most civilized places on the Sword Coast!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And it ain’t like we’re runnin’ odda space any time soon!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DORN: A warrior is drawn to battle and conquest like moths fluttering towards a flame.  You owe it to yourself and that child you protect to make a greater name for yourself in this life!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Maybe, Dorn.  Maybe.
ALL: MEETING DRIZZT FOR THE FIRST TIME
NOTE: This scene doesn’t play when meeting Drizzt & co after leaving the Underdark in BGII.
Before Initial Meeting with Drizzt
HULL: <Hull leans in toward you and whispers.>
Is that Drizzt?  If it is, let’s meet him!
Why do you say that?
HULL: I don’t know all the details, but I heard he’s a heroic Drow that kills other Drow and stuff.  He’s still a warrior of legend!
But he’s still Drow.  No.
HULL: Don’t -you- want to meet this hero?
Oh, alright.  We’ll meet him.
HULL: Thanks, kid.  You just made my day!  <End Dialog with Hull.  Begin dialog with Drizzt.>
I said no.
HULL: <Hull groans.>  <END DIALOG.>
I may have heard about this one Drizzt.  Let’s talk!
HULL: Remind me to buy you a drink for this, kid!
<End dialog with Hull.  Begin dialog with Drizzt.>
BG1: MEETING DRIZZT IN FISHERMAN’S LAKE
NOTE: This doesn’t account for mods like Drizzt Saga, wherein Hull would rejoice to fight alongside Drizzt!
This assumes Hull is in the group when Drizzt calls out to the party when fighting the gnolls.
DRIZZT: You there!  Will you help a stranger in need?  I am beset by gnolls!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, that’s Drizzt, the legendary Drow hero!  We can trust him!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
If the Party Tries Helping Drizzt
HULL: Alright!  Fighting with you Drizzt is a dream come true!
If the Party Tries Ignoring Drizzt
HULL: Kid, I’m gonna live a dream and you can’t stop me!
<Hull leaves the party but fights as an ally to them and Drizzt.>
If the Party Attacks Drizzt - The First Time
HULL: STOP!
Drizzt, I apologize.  It was a mistake!
<Drizzt looks at <CHARNAME> with suspicion, but grunts and moves on.>
I’m here to kill Drizzt the legendary warrior and take his gear!
<Hull leaves the party, sides with Drizzt, and these 2 attack the party!>
If the Party Attacks Drizzt - Any Subsequent Time in BG1
HULL: You had your chance, kid!
<Hull leaves the party, sides with Drizzt, and these 2 attack the party!>
BG2: MEETING DRIZZT’S ILLUSION IN THE CITY OF CAVERNS (RIDDLE OF THE IMPS QUEST)
Dialog with the Imps: Drizzt’s Item
<Hull interjects and prevents the party from speaking.>
HULL: I got this, kid.  The answer is Scimitar!
<Continue with the dialog and quest as normal.>
BG2: MEETING DRIZZT POST-UNDERDARK
NOTE: This doesn’t account for mods like Region of Terror, wherein Hull would rejoice to fight alongside Drizzt!
Hull’s responses depend entirely on how Drizzt responds to <CHARNAME>.
Drizzt is Unhappy/Offended to See <CHARNAME> (Non-Imposter)
DRIZZT: You there!  I recognize you!  You’re the scoundrel that attacked me for no good reason near Baldur’s Gate and made off with my equipment!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
Know you that I am Drizzt Do’Urden, and I have done nothing in the surface lands but fight against evil that I see... including bandits such as yourself?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
It took me a long time to track down my scimitars and an equally long time to track down you... and now I have done so.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<further Drizzt party chatter>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: Why did you attack me, <RACE>?  Are you truly a simple bandit and nothing more?  If that is the case, I shall be disappointed.
<Hull looks at Drizzt then <CHARNAME> in shock and horror!>
HULL: How could you?!
Hull, he’s a Drow on the surface!  How was I to know?
<Hull groans as he barely restrains his anger toward you!>
<Progress dialog.  Note that if <CHARNAME> admits to being a bandit or expressed to Drizzt a desire to attack/kill him, Hull will immediately leave the party and fight against <CHARNAME>’s party in anger!>
Haven’t you ever wanted to kill a famous person before?
<Hull groans as he barely restrains his anger toward you!>
<Hull leaves the party and drops all quest items at his feet.  Progress dialog.>  
Hull, we sparred, but I won.  I -may- have -accidentally- killed him in the process.
<Hull pauses a moment and seems painfully conflicted or confused.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, apologize.
Drizzt is Unhappy/Offended to See <CHARNAME> (Imposter: <CHARNAME> is an Elf named Drizzt with a Reputation Below 12)
DRIZZT: You there!  Finally, we meet... I’ve had enough of you wandering about pretending to be me!  Earn your own reputation... my name is my own!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, you chose a -bad- nickname for yourself.
<Drizzt & co attack!>
Drizzt is Happy/Not Offended to See <CHARNAME>
DRIZZT: I tell you, Bruenor, we’ve been on this path previously.  Are you sure you know where you left it?  I have no desire to keep traveling in circles.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<further Drizzt party chatter>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: That’s the legendary warrior Drizzt and his merry band!  Let’s go meet them!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: Peace, my friends, there is no need for us to fight over this.  Ho, there travelers!  I am Drizzt Do’Urden, most recently of the Ten Towns.  Are you friend or foe?
HULL: Drizzt, we come in peace!  I am -honored- to meet you!  I heard about you!  Thank you for all that you’ve done!
<Proceed with ‘friend’ dialog for Drizzt.>
<Hull will act the same - generally with hostility - if <CHARNAME> admits to killing Drizzt or stealing his stuff.>
BG2: MEETING DRIZZT IN BODHI’S LAIR IF DRIZZT HELPS
NOTE: This doesn’t account for mods like Region of Terror, wherein Hull would rejoice to fight alongside Drizzt!
Before the Party Beats Bodhi’s Lair
HULL: Kid, we get to fight alongside Drizzt!  This is a dream come true!
Hull, why do you care so much about this?
Drizzt is such a -legend-, kid!  We -finally- get to adventure with him!  Maybe he’ll let us use his stuff afterwards!
Maybe it’s like being a mage who fights alongside Elminster!  Think of the prestige, kid!
I’m not in it for Drizzt admiration, Hull.
Well, -I- am!  Obviously!
It’s good to be around a -helpful- celebrity for a change!
You got -that- right, kid!
Are you -sure- you aren’t in love with Drizzt, Hull?
Kid, Drizzt is my hero, not someone I want to kiss!
Let’s move on, Hull.
<Hull sighs.>  Alright, kid.  This was just so exciting!
After the Party Beats Bodhi’s Lair - Assuming Drizzt Survives
HULL: Drizzt, it was an honor to fight beside you!  Call me Hull - or Charlie - if ever you want help saving the world!
Hull, -I- want your help saving the world!
It’s just more fun with Drizzt, y’know?
Hull, Gorion would want you to help you to help -me!-
<Hull sighs.>  Yer probably right, kid.
Assuming Drizzt Dies in Bodhi’s Lair (Not from Party Hurting Him)
HULL: Drizzt!  You can’t die here!  Someone revive him!  Quickly!
If the Party Attacks Drizzt in Bodhi’s Lair - The First Time
HULL: STOP!
Drizzt, I apologize.  It was a mistake!
<Drizzt looks at <CHARNAME> with suspicion, but grunts and moves on.>
I’m here to kill Drizzt the legendary warrior and take his gear!
<Hull leaves the party, sides with Drizzt, and these 2 attack the party!>
If the Party Attacks Drizzt - Any Subsequent Time in Bodhi’s Lair
HULL: You had your chance, kid!
<Hull leaves the party, sides with Drizzt, and these 2 attack the party!>
ALL: DRIZZT/HULL BANTER (DRIZZT SAGA MOD & REGION OF TERROR MOD)
If Drizzt and Hull are in the party
DRIZZT: Hull, what have you heard in the tales about me?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You’re strong as a giant, nimble as a shadow, tougher than a golem, and a friend to anyone in need!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: <Drizzt smiles.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: It sounds like Volo has been -quite- the embellisher of my travels.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: It’s more than just Volo.  It seems like anyone who speaks about your exploits tells about how you’re special.  You’re wonderful.  You’re a hero.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: Like my life is a story with some benevolent author ensures I am challenged but never overwhelmed, struck down, but never destroyed?  That some force ensures I always emerge victorious at the right time?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Absolutely!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: <Drizzt smiles.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: Then Hull, my admirer, what do you believe?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I’d rather believe the legends are true.  It’s safer that way.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: You shall see, my abbil.  You shall see.
BG2: MEETING DUSK FOR THE FIRST TIME FOR RECRUITMENT
Before Initial Meeting with Dusk
HULL: <Hull leans in toward you and whispers.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, that guy’s getup reminds me of a Purple Dragon Knight.  I think he’s trustworthy, kid.
And does his beard make him even -more- trustworthy?
HULL: Maybe, kid.  The look in his eyes is one that commands respect.
You’re a good enough bodyguard for me.  I’d rather just pass on him now.
HULL: Thanks, I think.  <End Dialog.>
Hull, let’s talk with him then!
HULL: Lead on!
<End dialog with Hull.  Begin dialog with Dusk.>
ALL: DUSK/HULL BANTER
If Dusk and Hull are in the party
DUSK: Hull, what is it like being so far from home and at war when you thought it would be over by now?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: That’s... a lot to think about.  Candlekeep was a place I called home.  I liked it... until I outgrew it and got -bored- of it.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Then when the -legendary sage Gorion- was -brutally murdered- soon after leaving Candlekeep, I left to protect his oldest kid and become like an uncle!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But I know what it’s like to -want- to go home and just try to stop caring about everything that bothers you, but then you realize you just -can’t- go home because too much has changed.  And the guy in charge would kill you if he found out you sneezed on one of his precious books!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DUSK: Hull, I too know what it is like to be separated from home.  I was once a commander of the Purple Dragon Knights of Cormyr.  We were sent on a mission to the south.  It was my first time at sea.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DUSK: While battling around the Giant Plains, we were ambushed by orcs and giants.  They whittled away at our forces again and again and again.  I did what I could and, yet, all my men died!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DUSK: <Dusk sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: In all the stories I read in Candlekeep and everything I heard about famous heroes like Drizzt, no one ever told me that being a hero may mean seeing everyone else you care about die.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Drizzt is in the party.>
DRIZZT: I am sorry for your loss.  I pray we shall suffer none more like this!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Drizzt, I don’t blame you.  It wasn’t like I denied you entry into Candlekeep for not having whatever book Ulraunt thought would be nice to have that day.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Besides, you could probably get into Candlekeep based on your heroic reputation alone!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: Appreciated, Hull.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<Regardless of whether Drizzt is in the party.>
DUSK: <Dusk smiles.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DUSK: Well, my friends, it seems we aren’t so different after all.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Agreed.  I can be your brother in arms!  And legs!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DUSK: Maybe, Hull.  Maybe.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DUSK: <Dusk smiles at Hull.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull smiles and winks back at Dusk.>
ALL: MEETING DYNAHEIR FOR THE FIRST TIME
Before Initial Meeting with Dynaheir - if Minsc nor Edwin isn’t in the party
HULL: <Hull leans in toward you and whispers.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: She seems a bit off, kid, like she’s in a trance, but she looks like a mage.  Better respect her.
I’d rather not get involved.
HULL: <Hull shrugs.>  <End Dialog>
Let’s talk to her.
HULL: Alright.  Here we go, kid!
<End dialog with Hull.  Begin dialog with Dynaheir.>
BG1: DYNAHEIR/HULL BANTER
If Dynaheir and Hull are in the party
HULL: Dynaheir, thanks for joining us.  I feel better with another caster around.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DYNAHEIR: Thou art comforted by my presence, Hull?  Thou art wise to believe so!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Minsc is in the party.>
MINSC: Minsc and Boo agree!  Dynaheir is a wise and smart witch!  
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
MINSC: Minsc and Boo protect Dynaheir like you protect <CHARNAME>, Hull, looking out for dirty, stinky evil at every turn!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thanks.  I’m glad you saw that, too!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DYNAHEIR: Minsc, how many times must I use cleaning cantrips just to undo the presence of thy pet?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
MINSC: Boo has marked you as his witch, too!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DYNAHEIR: Yes, and I wish Boo would keep his stench to himself.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull shrugs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DYNAHEIR: <Dynaheir sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DYNAHEIR: But why art thou so comforted, Hull?  Surely there are many who seek our destruction because of my power!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I grew up in Candlekeep.  I know that magic is powerful.  That’s why it’s magic.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And, well, one of my mentors named Gorion was a caster.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Sure, there are mundane ways to cure poison or treat injuries, but magic can do those -right away!-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And, well, how -else- are you gonna shoot giant balls of fire so easily?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DYNAHEIR: <Dynaheir smiles and laughs slightly.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DYNAHEIR: Thou art an amusing one, Hull.  ‘Tis a pity thou art not of Rashemen, for thy demeanor is well-suited to guard those the Wychlaran has sent.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thanks.  I think.
ALL: MEETING EDWIN FOR THE FIRST TIME
Before Initial Meeting with Edwin
HULL: <Hull leans in toward you and whispers.>
He looks like a Red Wizard, kid.  They’re known for being arrogant, intelligent, serious, and -very- powerful.  Not Elminster powerful, but someone to be careful around.  I’d like to meet him, if you’re OK with that.
Why do you want to meet him?
HULL: Maybe he can easily get us some better magic gear!
I’d rather not get involved.
HULL: Please?
Oh, alright.  We’ll meet him.
HULL: Thanks, kid.  <End Dialog with Hull.  Begin dialog with Edwin.>
I said no.
<Hull groans.>  <END DIALOG.>
Let’s talk to him.
HULL: -That’s- the spirit!
<End dialog with Hull.  Begin dialog with Edwin.>
ALL: EDWIN/HULL BANTER
If Edwin & Hull are in the party - Hull is a single class Fighter of any kit
EDWIN: Hull, your admiration for me is uncanny.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thanks, I think.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
EDWIN: (Careful.  Better put this goodwill to good use.)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull blinks at Edwin and waits.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
EDWIN: So, you still want to learn magic, yes?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Yeah!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
EDWIN: First, we must test your intelligence.  Say my name.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Edwin Odisseirson.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
EDWIN: <Edwin sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
EDWIN: Odisseron!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Edwin Odisseiron.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
EDWIN: <Edwin sighs again.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
EDWIN: Now you mock me.
If Edwin & Hull are in the party
HULL: Edwin, why do you whisper to yourself?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
EDWIN: I am a sage that gives sound advice.  (Careful.  He’s onto you.)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You just did it again!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull blinks at Edwin and waits.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
EDWIN: Hull, it means I know how to talk -and- how to listen.  I demonstrate that frequently in front of others as a reminder.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull shrugs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
EDWIN: (Good, good.  He’s listening.)
ALL: MEETING ELDOTH FOR THE FIRST TIME
Before Initial Meeting with Eldoth
HULL: <Hull leans in toward you and whispers.>
Kid, I don’t know what to make of this guy.  He seems off in ways I just can’t explain.
Why do you say that?
HULL: Look at his eyes, like he’s in a trance of smokin’ somethin’.
I’ll take the safer route and leave him be.
HULL: Maybe that’s best, kid.  <End Dialog>
Let’s meet him anyway.
HULL: If your curiosity gets you in trouble, I told ya so.
<End dialog with Hull.  Begin dialog with Eldoth.>
ALL: ELDOTH/HULL BANTER
If Eldoth & Hull are in the party
HULL: Eldoth, why do your eyes look barely open?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELDOTH: Can you hear it, Hull?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: What?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELDOTH: The melodies in the quiet.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Not like you.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELDOTH: I feel the rhythms of the mind.  I’m working on a new song.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: What’s it called?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELDOTH: Silence.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull quietly looks wide-eyed at Eldoth.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELDOTH: The song is called “Silence.”  It will have a melody.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Oh.
BG1: POST-MEETING ELMINSTER FOR THE FIRST TIME
After Initial Meeting with Elminster
HULL: <Hull stands bolt upright and looks you in the eyes in surprise!>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: That was Elminster!  I let him into Candlekeep once!
Maybe we’ll talk about Elminster another time.
HULL: Alright, kid.
Why is that important?
HULL: Elminster is one of THE MOST POWERFUL MAGES IN THE WORLD!  And he was interested in -you,- kid!  Something tells me Gorion and Elminster were friends.
Again, why is that important?
HULL: If we find Elminster again, maybe he’ll be nice and give us some of his old stuff!  <Hull laughs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Regardless, kid, he’s probably testing you somehow to prove your worth as Gorion’s successor.  Or something.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Imoen is in the party.>
IMOEN: <Imoen shrugs.>
Where can we find Elminster?
HULL: I don’t think -we- find Elminster.  I think -he- just finds us!  Any caster of -his- caliber is normally busy making sure Faerun doesn’t explode!
ALL: MEETING FALDORN FOR THE FIRST TIME
Before Initial Meeting with Faldorn
HULL: <Hull leans in toward you and whispers.>
Kid, she’s a witch.  I’d say burn her, but maybe she’s fireproof.
Why do you say that?
HULL: Just look at her!  She’s either a performer or a witch.
I’d rather not get involved with this ‘witch.’
HULL: Good, kid.  Good.  <End Dialog>
I still want to meet her.
HULL: Not my fault if she poisons you or turns you into a squirrel.
<End dialog with Hull.  Begin dialog with Faldorn.>
ALL: FALDORN/HULL BANTER
If Faldorn & Hull are in the party
HULL: Faldorn, why your obsession with preserving the ‘natural world?’
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
FALDORN: Hull, can you not see its beauty, its majesty, its -power?-  Your question borders on an -insult,- Hull.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: No offense intended.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
FALDORN: <Faldorn snorts at Hull.>  I can tell you are not done speaking.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: What counts as ‘nature?’  I heard you talk about the corrupting influence of civilization, but if you burn down a forest, it becomes a swamp or a plain or a or a desert.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
FALDORN: Cities are a blight on the beauty of nature.  (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: OK.  That’s a start.  Maybe you just found some mean, violent, ugly cities or castles.  I was done with the beauty of Candlekeep -way- before I left!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
FALDORN: Can you not -see- their destruction, Hull?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I can’t speak for every tree dweller, but just be careful about hating civilization.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
FALDORN: <Faldorn looks suspiciously at Hull.>  Again you are not done speaking.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Because if you just hate the notion that someone came into a place you thought was yours and took something you liked, I get why you’d be mad...
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: ...but if you hate the notion of people taking ‘n’ refinin’ resources, then every soft bed you sleep in, every scroll you read, every potion you drink, and every weapon and armor you use that was made by someone, somehow, somewhere is gonna make you seem hypocritical or it’s gonna piss you off so much that you may as well die or change your mind.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
FALDORN: That... is one way to put it.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: There.  I’m done.  Truce?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
FALDORN: Truce.
BG1: MEETING FINCH FOR THE FIRST TIME
Before Initial Meeting with Finch
HULL: <Hull leans in toward you and whispers.>
HULL: She’s a shorty, but she’s trustworthy.  She’s a priest of some sort.  Not a thief at all.
What makes you say that?
HULL: She was in Candlekeep for awhile, kid.  I thought you noticed!
I don’t want another reminder of Candlekeep right now.  Let’s leave.
HULL: <Hull shrugs.>  <End Dialog>
If she’s a priest, then she’s worth talking to!
HULL: Lead on.
<End dialog with Hull.  Begin dialog with Finch.>
BG1: FINCH/HULL BANTER
If Finch & Hull are in the party
HULL: Welcome back, Finch!  It’s good ta have ya travelin’ with us.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
FINCH: <Finch smiles.>  You too, Hull.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Imoen is in the group>
IMOEN: I agree.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
FINCH: You too, Imoen.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<Regardless of whether Imoen is in the group>
HULL: Yeah!  It’s like we’re bringing Candlekeep to the world!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
FINCH: Let’s get books for everyone!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: That’s a -lotta- books!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
FINCH: I know.  More people reading makes life better for everyone!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You seemed -obsessed- with books.  How much longer ‘til you know everything?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
FINCH: I’d need immortality and maybe godhood for that.  I can’t tell you off-hand how long THAT would take...  Although...
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I know that trail of thought.  You’re about to ask for more research materials.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
FINCH: Yeah!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: If you can find ‘em, have at ‘em, girl!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
FINCH: Sure thing!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Now, let’s get back to where we were going and what we were doing.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
FINCH: Becoming all-knowing!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And maybe that.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
FINCH: <Finch turns to Hull then smiles and winks at him.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull turns to Finch then smiles and winks back.>
BG1: MEETING FIREBEAD ELVENHAIR IN BEREGOST
Initially Talking with Firebeard with Hull in the Party
FIREBEAD: <Firebead Elvenhair looks your way with a hint of surprise.>  
<Continue with Firebeard’s normal dialog introduction.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
FIREBEAD: Oh, and Hull I see!  What brings you this far from Candlekeep?  Have you come to escort me back?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: No, sir.  I figured I’d protect Gorion’s foster kid since he couldn’t.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
FIREBEAD: How kind of you!
<If Imoen is in the Party.>
FIREBEAD: Firebead Elvenhair turns to Imoen.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
FIREBEAD: Oh, Imoen too?  This reunion made me feel like I’m back in Candlekeep when I barely left!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
FIREBEAD: <Firebead smiles.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
FIREBEAD: Still, I would like that copy of the book History of the Fateful Coin.  I heard various inns had a copy, and maybe the Friendly Arm Inn has one.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<Commence normal dialog but add the following dialog options, regardless of whether Hull is in the party.>
[If the party has at least 1 Identify scroll and the party hasn’t finished the Firebead’s Scroll quest] Here’s your Identify scroll you wanted!
FIREBEAD: Thank you.  Gorion would be proud of you for this.
<Party receives 50 EXP (split), a Potion of Healing, and has Protection from Evil (Wizard edition) cast on <CHARNAME> at caster level 11.  These are the normal rewards given for finishing this quest.>
ALL: MEETING GARRICK FOR THE FIRST TIME
Before Initial Meeting with Garrick
HULL: <Hull leans in toward you and whispers.>
Kid, he looks like a performer, maybe a poet.
Why do you say that?
HULL: I’ve seen a lot of -his- kind around Candlekeep!
No, thanks.
HULL: <Hull nods.>  <End Dialog>
Sounds fun, maybe predictable.  Let’s meet him.
HULL: Sure, kid.  Go ahead.
<End dialog with Hull.  Begin dialog with Garrick.>
ALL: GARRICK/HULL BANTER
If Garrick & Hull are in the party
HULL: Garrick, are you -sure- you never visited Candlekeep while I was on duty there years ago?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GARRICK: I’m pretty sure, Hull.  Why ask?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: There was a guy who came by sometimes looking -just like you.-  He sang pretty well, too.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GARRICK: <Garrick smiles and bows.>  Why thank you, Hull.  It is good to be praised for my profession!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Maybe you have a long-lost identical twin!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GARRICK: <singing> Da da daaaaaa!  The plot thickens!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <dramatically>  Will we ever find this doppelganger?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GARRICK: And is he -truly- as talented and handsome as Hull claims him to be?  Find out... in our next performance!
SOD/EET: MEETING GLINT GARDNERSONSON FOR THE FIRST TIME FOR RECRUITMENT
Before Initial Meeting with Glint
HULL: <Hull leans in toward you and whispers.>
Kid, watch yerself around the shorty!  Probably a thief and a bit odd too!
Hull, will you -stop- it with thinking every shorty I want to talk to is a thief?
HULL: <Hull groans.>  No, I won’t.  Being tall and strong makes you a good fighter.  Being short makes you a good thief.
Hull, talking with him doesn’t seem worth it.  Let’s move on.
HULL: I’m glad yer listenin’ to my hunch, kid.  <End Dialog>
Hull, I’m too curious to ignore him, even if he is a thief!
HULL: And I’m ready to stop him if he acts too thiefy.
<End dialog with Hull.  Begin dialog with Glint.>
SoD: GLINT/HULL BANTER
If Glint & Hull are in the party
HULL: Glint, help me understand you.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GLINT: Uh, what?  Am I in trouble, officer?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull shakes his head.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Let’s just say no.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GLINT: Well, then, uh, Hull.  So, what is it you want to know about me?  My age?  My height?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: If it’s your lot in life to sneak around everywhere, why do gnomes -talk- so damn much?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GLINT: Well, Hull, that’s a somewhat complex question but I have a sufficient solution.  I think.  You see, gnomes were made to be a small and secretive people.  It's not so much that we like keeping secrets as that we hate being discovered.  We prefer to live our lives beneath notice, because when we're noticed, it's usually much bigger and much meaner creatures that notice us.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: OK.  I get that.  But why all the chatter?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GLINT: Your kind talks a lot, too!  Doesn’t it?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: We -can- talk a lot, but why is it that -every gnome I met- wants to try -dictating- his life to me like I’m a scribe?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GLINT: Hull, no one’s ever put it to me that way!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GLINT: But since you asked, and I am -so very eager- to respond...   I think it’s because magic is in our blood.  And what is magic?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Is this a real question or just you talking?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GLINT: Magic is the foundation of the universe!  Spells are words given life!  Word power is -world- power!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: So you talk a lot to feel powerful.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GLINT: Of course!  And to leave an impression on the world around us!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: “An impression” doesn’t simply make it a “good impression.”
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GLINT: I know, but you remember us gnomes, and that’s what matters most!
ToB: MEETING GORION IN PERSON (TURNABOUT MOD) (REUNION MOD)
Gorion Appears
HULL: Gorion?!  You’re back?  Wow!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Let’s just call this a miracle!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Sir, it has been an HONOR protecting and guiding your foster children in your stead!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thank you, sir, for living as such a great example!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: By the way, I’m Hull, the former guardsman of Candlekeep.  We talked sometimes over the years.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GORION: Hull?  You are not a man I was expecting to find here!  But thank you for your help!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Sir, your approval means SO MUCH to me!  Thank you!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Tears of joy fall down Hull’s face.>
<END DIALOG WITH HULL.>
ALL: GREY/HULL BANTER
If Grey the Dog & Hull are in the party
HULL: <Hull smiles, crouches down, faces Grey, and speaks an encouraging voice.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Who’s a good widdle caster disruptor?  You are!  You are!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Who’s gonna bite our enemies in the balls?  You are!  You are!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
If Imoen is in the group
IMOEN: <Imoen giggles.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GREY: <Grey barks happily!>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: That’s a good doggie!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Yeah.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
Regardless of whether Imoen is in the group
HULL: Time to take life by the -balls!-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
GREY: <Grey barks confidently!>
BG2: MEETING HAER’DALIS FOR THE FIRST TIME
Before Initial Meeting with Haer’Dalis
HULL: <Hull leans in toward you and whispers.>
Kid, he looks... extraplanar, and not in a good way.  He -might- still be trustworthy.
What makes you say that?
HULL: I read books on fiends, and he -clearly- looks like a Tiefling to me!  He also isn’t -trying- to kill us, so that’s helpful.
I’ll stay away from fiends, thank you very much!
HULL: So be it.  <End Dialog>
The forbidden fruit tastes the sweetest.  Let’s meet him, Hull!
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
<End dialog with Hull.  Begin dialog with Haer’Dalis.>
BG2: HAER’DALIS/HULL BANTER
If Haer’Dalis & Hull are in the party
HAER’DALIS: Hull, from what I’ve heard of your life with <CHARNAME>, it would make a -fascinating- play!  Life and death!  Betrayal and loss!  Battle and victory!  Political intrigue and murder!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thanks!  And I’m sorry I misjudged you.  Tiefling and all.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HAER’DALIS: I understand my fiendish heritage may be reason enough to give pause, Hull, but I trust you see my intentions as genuine despite my acting profession.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Uh, yeah.  What did you like about our story so much?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HAER’DALIS: How true it is!  We have a living legend among us and perhaps someone destined to be remembered throughout the ages for great deeds!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Just write in a noble part for me too!  Gorion’s kid ‘n’ I were friends -before- all this famous stuff started!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Imoen is in the party.>
IMOEN: Hey!  I’ve been helping <CHARNAME> too as <PRO_HISHER> little sister!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HAER’DALIS: Ah, yes, my wildflower!  History shall remember your contributions in this saga as well!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<Regardless of whether Imoen is in the party.>
HULL: So, when’s this play of yours coming out, and what shall you call it?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HAER’DALIS: Hull, it shall be ready when it is ready.  Are we not still in the making of such a saga?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HAER’DALIS: As for its name, I believe the most fitting title is, “Candlekeep: A Legacy of Blood.”
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: That’ll put some butts in seats!
BG2: MEETING HEPHERNAAN FOR THE FIRST TIME FOR HIM TO JOIN THE PARTY OR IF HULL & HEPHERNAAN ARE IN THE PARTY TOGETHER
Before Initial Meeting with Hephernaan
HULL: Hephernaan here is a -super traitor!-  Let’s send him back to -Hell- where he -belongs!-
Whoa, Hull!  That’s extreme of you!
HULL: Don’t you remember what he did with Dragonspear Castle and Avernus?  Time to do the world a favor and KILL him!
Hull, let’s kill the bastard!
HULL: Good!  <Hephernaan turns hostile to the party.  End Dialog.>
Hull, I’d rather not get involved.
HULL: Well -I- would!  Help kill him, kid, or just stay odda my way!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Drizzt is in the party.>
HULL: C’mon, Drizzt!  Let’s kill this fiend!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: Certainly, Hull!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<Regardless of whether Drizzt is in the party.>
HULL: No Nice Uncle Hull for this bastard!  <Hephernaan turns hostile to Hull and, if present, also Drizzt.  End Dialog.>
Hephernaan, let’s rid the world of this drunk once and for all!
HULL: BETRAYAL!  <Hull turns hostile to the party.  End Dialog.>
BG2: MEETING HEXXAT FOR THE FIRST TIME
Before Initial Meeting with Hexxat
HULL: <Hull leans in toward you and whispers.>
Kid, I dunno what to think, but this gal just seems -wrong.-
HULL: I just have a -strong- hunch, kid.
Hull, let’s just avoid her.  It’s for the best.
HULL: Yeah.  <End Dialog>
She’s strange enough to talk to.  Let’s go!
HULL: Don’t make me wanna say I told ya so, kid!
<End dialog with Hull.  Begin dialog with Hexxat.>
BG2: HEXXAT/HULL BANTER
If Hexxat (full vampiric form) & Hull are in the party
HULL: Careful where you tread, bloodsucker.  We trusted you once and you showed yourself to be... this.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HEXXAT: Hmph.  How typical of your kind, so scared of what you don’t understand.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Oh, girl, I understand more than you know!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HEXXAT: <Hexxat’s eyes narrow at Hull.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Hangin’ around in the dark.  Drinkin’ yourself happy.  Sleeping all day.  Avoidin’ most people.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You’re like a drunk with magic powers and an even -worse- reputation!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HEXXAT: Hmph.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I know.  I lived that.  I left that.  I’m right to judge.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HEXXAT: Your argument is... cute, Hull.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull smiles.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Sure.  Though I meant it.  And just like a drunk, yer dangerous by your very nature.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HEXXAT: Is that all you see me as, Hull - a weapon ready to be let loose upon the world?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: No, but it’s something you could just -decide- to be one day for -whatever- reason, and, well, we didn’t survive Sarevok’s warmongering just to be sucked dry because you had a bad day.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HEXXAT: <Hexxat quietly ponders.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HEXXAT: Since we’re talking now and you’re not charging at me like some fanatical paladin, let’s just leave this matter alone.  If <CHARNAME> trusts us to be together, I trust <PRO_HIMHER>.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: For now, yes.
BG2: MEETING HUBELPOT FOR THE FIRST TIME
(HUBELPOT MOD)
Before Initial Meeting with Hubelpot
HULL: <Hull leans in toward you and whispers.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, I heard this guy was sellin’ veggies.  I dunno what he eats, but his face looks too fat!
HULL: Look at ‘im, kid!  He looks too well-fed to just be eating from his own stock!
Hull, let’s just avoid veggies.  I don’t wanna turn green!
HULL: <Hull snickers and shrugs.>  <End Dialog>
Let’s check out his wares.  Maybe he has ‘special’ veggies.
HULL: I still wanna be able to see straight after eatin’ from him!
<End dialog with Hull.  Begin dialog with Hubel.>
BG2: HUBELPOT/HULL BANTER
(HUBELPOT MOD)
If Hubelpot and Hull are in the party
HULL: Hubelpot?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HUBELPOT: <Hubelpot looks curiously at Hull.>  Yes, Hull?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Sorry for makin’ fun of ya.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HUBELPOT: For what?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You’re a veggie merchant.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HUBELPOT: <Hubelpot nods and shrugs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Why’s your head so fat?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HUBELPOT: <Hubelpot smiles and laughs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Imoen is in the party.>
IMOEN: <Imoen snickers.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HUBELPOT: I was just born this way, Hull.
BG1: IMOEN/HULL BANTER
If Imoen & Hull are in the party:  First Banter
IMOEN: Gorion’s... really dead, isn’t he?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Yeah.  He was pretty old for a human, but there’s a chance someone can revive him.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: I guess this means we wander the countryside looking for a greater purpose.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Maybe.  Gorion -did- have big plans for you two, adopting you in Candlekeep ‘n’ all.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: Thanks, Hull.  <Imoen smiles.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And now we go on the parts of the adventure that all the books in Candlekeep skipped over - actually walking!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: “Then they walked 500 miles and then they walked 500 more.  They stopped at many inns along the way looking for work, beer, and beds.  It was a very long journey.  But because I already wrote 500 pages about them, they’re the heroes, and so they must win.  The end.”
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: <Imoen smiles and giggles.>
If Imoen & Hull are in the party:  Second Banter
IMOEN: Hull, you didn’t -need- to leave Candlekeep to look after us.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You say that now, but I’d already spent -years- staring at Candlekeep’s walls and wishing I could do -something- more!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: That’s... awfully kind of you.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I heard that war was coming.  Sure, it wasn’t like people were gonna make war on -Candlekeep-, but there are only so many times I could wake up tasting the floor and wishing for something else.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: <Imoen smiles.>  Still, what did you think of Gorion?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: He is - and was - a good man.  He raised you two!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Although I know Winthrop was teaching you his ‘special skills.’
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: <Imoen smirks.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Sometimes... I felt jealous he picked you instead of me.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: If you wanted him to teach you, you, uh, could’ve asked.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I got yelled at enough by the guards and some of the casters for mettling’ where I ‘didn’t belong.’  I’m pretty sure that if that ass Ulraunt really cared about what was going on, he’d make -all- the Candlekeep guards study wizardry!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: Going on?  What?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Candlekeep’s guard was treated like pack mules and tour guides for dignitaries.  Learning some silence spells and strength boosters would’ve -very much helped!-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: Well, when you put it that way...
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull turns to Imoen then smiles and winks.>
If Imoen & Hull are in the party:  Third Banter
IMOEN: Hull, what did the guards do when they weren’t trying to find me or carry the nobles’ things?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull smiles.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: That depended on how we felt, where we were stationed, and so on.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Sometimes, we drank or gambled or talked.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: <Imoen smiles.>  You did a -lot- of the drinking and talking!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull sighs and shakes his head.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I know, I know.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: <Imoen smirks and giggles.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But I also listened to the lectures and lessons when I could.  I read when I could.  That ass Ulraunt didn’t seem to care much if his guards were well-educated, but I cared about what -I- knew!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: That’s a good point!  Gorion cared a -lot- about my education and <CHARNAME>’s too.  I just felt a lot closer to Winthrop than Gorion most of the time.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I did too!  Winthrop’s a good cook.  His steaks were better than any of the steaks I’ve had since we left.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And I know I joked a lot about staring at walls for hours or days at a time, but I -also- got scolded a -lot- for ‘mettling’ where someone thought I didn’t belong.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: So if I couldn’t read, I couldn’t get drunk, I couldn’t talk much, and I was -still- expected to be on duty, I’d normally just stare at walls waiting for time to pass and sometimes meditate on what I read.  Or how much I could go for another steak with some buttered carrots and garlic-roasted potatoes with a couple buckets of Winthrop’s apple cider.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: <Imoen smiles and giggles.>  Now I feel hungry again!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Well, when you put it that way...
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Who’s up for another feast?  I could go for one pretty soon.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: Me too!
If Imoen & Hull are in the party:  Fourth Banter
IMOEN: Hull, what were the other guards doing?  How did they last so long in Candlekeep?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull’s smile turns into a pained smirk.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I talked with Fuller the most.  We were mostly drinking buddies since he didn’t care that much for reading like I did.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I think most of the Candlekeep guards just wanted to get to the top rank, brag about it, then retire or die.  The closer to the top they got, the more they smelled like that ass Ulraunt.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: <Imoen smiles.>  You made that sound like a bad thing.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Because it is!  It’s like the top mages were too busy to even make golems or zombies to carry out their unbending wishes.  The higher-ups seemed scared to be happy, scared to laugh, and scared to have fun, like joy was an enemy of power.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: <Imoen smirks and giggles.>  Was it?  Is it?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I don’t wanna believe it, girl.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I know we chose to leave Candlekeep when we did.  I know that life hasn’t been all rosy since we left.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: But it hasn’t been -all- bad, right?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: What a friend you are, Imoen!  You’ve been around me so long you can finish my sentences!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: <Imoen smiles and winks at Hull.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I think I get it now, why that ass Ulraunt was so pissy all the time and why “our rules are very strict.”
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: Why?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: He’s in charge of one of the biggest and most famous libraries around.  He’s thinking about the customers.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: He -wants- more books to make him feel special and to make Candlekeep visitors think it’s the best place -anywhere- to read books so he can keep charging admission.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But people mistake Tethtoril for that ass Ulraunt -all the time.-  Tethtoril gets it.  He’s wise, he cares for Candlekeep, and he’s -nice.-  
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I got tired of correcting nobles who thought this kindly old man was in charge.  Instead, these picky, pissy nobles found another picky, pissy noble in charge.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: <Imoen smiles and giggles.>  It’s like they left home and found themselves!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And -that’s- what happens when you try to copy everyone else.  I think.  The end.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: Hull, thanks for answering my questions.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I’m glad we could talk now that I’m, uh, not trying to find you to arrest you.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: <Imoen smiles and winks at Hull.>
BG2: IMOEN/HULL BANTER
If Imoen & Hull are in the party:  First Banter
HULL: Imoen.  Please, girl, cheer up!  I miss your smiling face!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: <Imoen sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: I... I do, too.  It’s like I got captured then I got this... this feeling inside me like... like I’m being watched, and not for good reasons.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Whatever happened to you to hurt you, girl, I’m sorry.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: <Imoen sighs, trying to force a smile.>  I know, Hull.  I know you’re trying to cheer me up.  Whatever happened just wasn’t right.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull reaches out at Imoen, his fingers wiggling.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: Hey!  What?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: <Imoen giggles and smirks at Hull.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: Hey!  That- that tickles!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull pulls his hand back.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I know!  It worked!  Good!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: Thanks.  I... I needed that.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You must certainly did!  I needed that, too!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull opens his arms wide to hug Imoen.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Hug?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: <Imoen smiles at Hull.>  Sure.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull and Imoen hug as friends.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: <Imoen suddenly recoils in shock!>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: Hey!  No fair tickling me that close!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: It’s better than the “No fair torturing the joy out of me.”
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: <Imoen grins.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull squirms and giggles.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Hey!  You learned fast!
ToB: MEETING IRENICUS FOR THE FIRST TIME
(LONGER ROAD MOD)
Before Initial Meeting with Irenicus - Dialog with Velemir Rielev
VELEMIR: Are you ready to summon Jon Irenicus to your Pocket Plane, god-child?
HULL: Kid, I thought we killed that guy for capturing ‘n’ torturing Imoen and you!  Now you wanna talk?  WHAT?!
I have a plan, Hull.  Trust me!
HULL: Maybe you see the good in him.  Maybe you want to torment him s’more!  He’s still a royal -bastard- to me!
You’re right.  Let’s just leave and avoid this crazy mage!
HULL: Finally, kid!  Ya talk -sense!-  <END DIALOG.  ASSUME THE PARTY SAID NOT THIS TIME TO VELEMIR.>
Let’s bring him here and talk to him.
<Hull groans in deep disapproval.>
Yes, Hull.  We’re talking with him.  Let me handle negotiations.
<Hull groans with further disapproval.>
<Pick One.>
Would you feel better if I told you -why- I intended to summon Irenicus?
HULL: Not really, but if you’re determined to do it, you’ll do it.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, if you go through with this, don’t be surprised if I attack him or just leave the group!  We beat him, kid, but he’s -still- dangerous!
I’m in it for revenge!
HULL: Kid, I thought killing him -twice- and beating him at least -thrice- would be enough!
Rielev here believes he can be redeemed.  I do too.
HULL: And he’s gonna use you as much as he can, just like he did before, but to further -his- goals.  I don’t like the sound of -that-, kid!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, if you go through with this, don’t be surprised if I attack him or just leave the group!  We beat him, kid, but he’s -still- dangerous!
I want to learn what I can from him.
HULL: I already learned -more- than I wanted from him, kid.  He’s a self-righteous soul-sucking -bastard- who -got the eternal torment he deserves!-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull sighs and looks at you, frustrated.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, if you go through with this, don’t be surprised if I attack him or just leave the group!  We beat him, kid, but he’s -still- dangerous!
<END DIALOG WITH HULL AND ASSUME THE PARTY SAID YES TO SUMMONING IRENICUS.>
Alright, my protective stand-in for Gorion.  We’ll just leave.
Good, kid!  <END DIALOG.  ASSUME THE PARTY SAID NOT THIS TIME TO VELEMIR.>
BG2: IRENICUS/HULL BANTER (LONGER ROAD MOD)
If Irenicus & Hull are in the party
IRENICUS: Hull, your disapproving grimace toward me has not gone unnoticed.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Good!  My face said it better than any words did!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IRENICUS: Know this, Hull:  My quarrel was never with you.  Obtaining the soul of the Bhaalspawn <CHARNAME> was always my intent, and your association with <PRO_HIMHER> was the reason for any collateral damage I caused you.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Well, yeah!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull blinks.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Wait!  Are you... siding with me?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IRENICUS: Claiming I am siding with you is merely an obvious observation.  We are, for the moment, on the same side due to my arrangements with <CHARNAME>.  As a free-willed being, you may do as you wish, but you ever live with the consequences of your actions.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I... don’t know what to say.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IRENICUS: Then resume remaining silent and letting your actions do the talking.
BG1: MEETING JAHEIRA & KHALID FOR THE FIRST TIME
Before Initial Meeting with Khalid & Jaheira
HULL: <Hull leans in toward you and whispers.>
Kid, they seem trustworthy.  I think those are the Khalid and Jaheira that Gorion mentioned.
Why do you say that?
HULL: Gorion passed some letters through the gate to be sent to them, kid.  I heard Gorion describe ‘em.
They just seem... too weak to be Gorion’s companions, whoever they are.  I’ll pass for now.
HULL: Your loss, kid.  <End Dialog>
Gorion wanted me to meet them.  Let’s!
HULL: Seems right, kid.
<End dialog with Hull.  Begin dialog with Khalid & Jaheira.>
ALL: JAHEIRA/HULL BANTER
If Jaheira & Hull are in the party
JAHEIRA: So, Hull, what do you know about Gorion while he was in Candlekeep?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Much less than I wanted.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
JAHEIRA: <Jaheira frowns at Hull.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: He was a sage in Candlekeep.  He raised two kids.  He was kind and wise.  I think he hung around Elminster a few times.  He died like a man.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
JAHEIRA: Anything else?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Well, I’m pretty sure he was a Harper because he was with Elminster sometimes.  Elminster -was- pretty famous in the books in Candlekeep!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
JAHEIRA: What did Gorion tell you about us?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Khalid and you were his friends.  Just that one sentence.  You’re probably Harpers too which is why Gorion would wanna meet with you.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
JAHEIRA: You’re... smarter than I thought you would be.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Khalid is in the group.>
KHALID: G-good de-deduction.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<Regardless of whether Khalid is in the group>
HULL: Whatever plans Gorion had were -so secret- that only -he- knew ‘em!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
JAHEIRA: Which means we should simply carry on.
BG2: MEETING JAN FOR THE FIRST TIME
Before Initial Meeting with Jan
HULL: <Hull leans in toward you and whispers.>
It’s another shorty, kid, and probably a thief.  Maybe he’s a jeweler with that headgear of his.
What makes you say that?
HULL: I thought I told you already that all halflings, gnomes, and ‘shorties’ are thieves until proven otherwise, just like all male wizards have facial hair by default.
A shorty who’s probably a thief?  Eh.  I’ll pass.
HULL: My wallet feels safer already, kid.  <End Dialog>
Let’s talk to him and ask him about his family jewels!
HULL: <Hull groans.>  I didn’t mean it like -that-, kid!
<End dialog with Hull.  Begin dialog with Jan.>
BG2: JAN/HULL BANTER
If Jan & Hull are in the party
JAN: You said you’re from Candlekeep, yes?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull shrugs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Yeah.  Why?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
JAN: I wish to file a formal complaint on behalf of my third cousin on my mother’s side.  He believes the current policy requiring a donation of a rare document to Candlekeep to enter is discriminating against the ignorant of the realms!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
JAN: Now, don’t interrupt me.  I’m not done with my story.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
JAN: He -tried- entering Candlekeep on civil terms but was repeatedly denied.  He had to rob a total of 29 tombs and 7 bookstores to find even a single document to give to Candlekeep one that they would accept!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
JAN: He was relieved... until he entered the inner library!  Did you know what he found?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Books.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
JAN: Yes!  Books!  All the ‘common trash’ that he tried donating to Candlekeep -before- they had him loot the world!  And in -quadruplicate- at least!  In a furious rage, he- wait!  Do you know what he did?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You’re gonna tell me anyway.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
JAN: He found some of those -copied- books and -ripped out a bunch of pages!-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And how do -you- feel about all this, Jan?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
JAN: I have no personal stake.  I was just relaying a message.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Jan, I -know- Candlekeep’s entry system is broken!  I lived through it!  Don’t blame me!  Blame that ass Ulraunt who runs the place!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
JAN: I’ll do just that on behalf of my third cousin on my mother’s side.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
ALL: MEETING KAGAIN FOR THE FIRST TIME
Before Initial Meeting with Kagain
HULL: <Hull leans in toward you and whispers.>
Kid, he seems honorable in an underworld sort of way.
Why do you say that?
HULL: I’ve seen it, but I can’t explain it, kid.  Just trust me.
He doesn’t seem like the sort of guy I want to be around.
HULL: There ya go, kid.  <End Dialog>
Let’s meet him anyway.
HULL: Well, I told ya so.
<End dialog with Hull.  Begin dialog with Kagain.>
ALL: KAGAIN/HULL BANTER
If Kagain & Hull are in the party
HULL: Kagain, how’d you get into the escort business?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KAGAIN: Gold.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You could’ve, y’know, mined it.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KAGAIN: Not my line of work.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: So, what did you like so much about the escort business?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KAGAIN: I hire some guys and we look fierce ‘n’ bash some skulls.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KAGAIN: Like you, fer instance.  Yer a fine strong one.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull smiles.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thanks!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KAGAIN: But ye talk too much fer yer own good.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull winces and frowns at Kagain.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Let yer axe ‘n’ cash do the talkin’.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thanks.  I think.
BG2: MEETING KELDORN FOR THE FIRST TIME
Before Initial Meeting with Keldorn
HULL: <Hull leans in toward you and whispers.>
That’s Keldorn Firecam!  He’s a paladin and -totally- trustworthy!
What makes you say that?
HULL: I asked him about you kid while waitin’ fer ya to arrive in Athkatla.  His order didn’t know what happened to ya, kid.  He probably won’t remember me.
You can like him all day long, Hull.  I’d rather not talk to him now.
HULL: Well, kid, he’s not self-righteous.  We’ll be back, though.  <End Dialog>
I’d like to be pals with this paladin!
HULL: Me too, kid!
<End dialog with Hull.  Begin dialog with Keldorn.>
BG2: KELDORN/HULL BANTER
If Keldorn & Hull are in the party
HULL: Keldorn, if you had to describe yourself in one sentence, what would it be?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KELDORN: <Keldorn ponders a moment.>  I shall honor your request, Hull.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KELDORN: I am a knight of the Most Noble Order of the Radiant Heart and servant of the God of Loyalty, Torm who has devoted his life to slaying evil, upholding the honor of good, aiding the downtrodden, and choosing to prioritize this sacred duty above personal affairs.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KELDORN: I... am a paladin.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thanks.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KELDORN: Hull, why did you ask?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I was gonna ask you, “What’s a paladin?” but then you answered it.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KELDORN: Not all paladins are devoted to revealing the truth as I.  We paladins are like precious gems sparkling in the light.  The one light shows our many excellencies and many glories, but all depend on the brilliance of the light.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: How... poetic.
BG1: KHALID/HULL BANTER
If Khalid & Hull are in the party
HULL: Khalid, why the st-st-stutter?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KHALID: <Khalid’s face flushes red.>  I’d r-r-rather not t-ta-talk about it.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Sorry.  I just want to help.  We each called Gorion friends.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KHALID: Th-thank you.
BG2: MEETING KORGAN FOR THE FIRST TIME
Before Initial Meeting with Korgan
HULL: <Hull leans in toward you and whispers.>
I heard his name is Korgan Bloodaxe.  He’s pretty surly and mean for a dwarf.  He’s a berserker and can down his ale by the -keg!-
What makes you say that?
HULL: While tryin’ ta find what happened to ya after Baldur’s Gate, I found Korgan a few times in some bars around Athkatla.
I’m not comfortable with that sort of company.
HULL: I know he doesn’t seem friendly, kid.  Maybe we’ll meet him again.  <End Dialog>
Let’s talk with this Korgan.  Maybe we’ll challenge him to a drinking contest!
HULL: Sure, kid, but don’t look to me to win it for ya.
<End dialog with Hull.  Begin dialog with Korgan.>
BG2: KORGAN/HULL BANTER
If Korgan & Hull are in the party
KORGAN: So, Hull, ye call yerself a human.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Yessir!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KORGAN: Yer a fine warrior, ye appreciate ale & gold, and yer beard’s growin’ in slowly.  Ye ain’t squeamish or sappy, either.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thanks.  Let’s just say I got adjusted to fightin’ ‘n’ death quickly after my, uh, mentor died.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KORGAN: Yeah, that be the way of the world.  Blood, death, ‘n’ vengeance’re all part of this little thing we call ‘life.’
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: What about happiness ‘n’ love?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KORGAN: Eh?  Get drunk, get happy.  Get rich, get happy.  Love whatcha do and ye get better.  Keep killin’ ‘n’ it gets easier.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Yeah.  I know the feelin’.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KORGAN: C’mon, ye half-dwarf!  There’s a battle callin’ our name!
ALL: MEETING KIVAN FOR THE FIRST TIME
Before Initial Meeting with Kivan
HULL: <Hull leans in toward you and whispers.>
Well, kid, there’s just something determined about this guy, maybe even serene.
Why do you say that?
HULL: He just seemed so quiet and focused.
I too am determined, but not to talk to him yet.
HULL: Just lettin’ ya know, kid.  <End Dialog>
I’ll talk to him.
HULL: Sure, kid.
<End dialog with Hull.  Begin dialog with Kivan.>
ALL: KIVAN/HULL BANTER (HERE OR HERE FOR BG2)
If Kivan & Hull are in the party
HULL: Kivan, how long -were- you waitin’ in High Hedge for someone to notice you?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KIVAN: I would have waited there as long as needed to contemplate my plan to kill Tazok and avenge my beloved Deheriana.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: That’s... methodical.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Really, I’m tryin’ to be useful here.  I’m not sure what there is to say to make you feel more welcome in our group.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KIVAN: <Kivan smiles.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KIVAN: Hull, do you consider yourself a man of courage?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: That’s... not what I expected you to say.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But I think so.  Not everyone would leave Candlekeep on a whim to help a friend find their place in the world.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And, yeah, Candlekeep is known for books, not battles.  Outside of Candlekeep, it’s like everyday someone or something else wants to pick a fight with us.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: So, what do you think?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KIVAN: I think you are correct, Hull.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thanks.  You’re pretty good yourself.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KIVAN: <Kivan nods.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You’ve lived longer.  When does the fight end?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KIVAN: <Kivan sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
KIVAN: The fight ends... when you can no longer fight, or you let it end, Hull.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Not the answer I wanted, but I got the hint you were gonna say that.
BG2: MEETING MAZZY FOR THE FIRST TIME
Before Initial Meeting with Mazzy
HULL: <Hull leans in toward you and whispers.>
I felt kinda bad for her kid, having been imprisoned ‘n’ all.  She’s a shorty, sure, but she doesn’t seem like a thief.
What makes you say that?
HULL: Something about her makes me wanna trust her, and if she were a thief, why didn’t she just jailbreak?
I’ve been around enough prisoners.  No thanks.
HULL: It’s your decision, kid.  Maybe you’ll change yer mind.  <End Dialog>
It isn’t like you to call a shorty anything but a thief!  Let’s talk to her!
HULL: Agreed, kid.
<End dialog with Hull.  Begin dialog with Mazzy.>
BG2: MAZZY/HULL BANTER
If Mazzy & Hull are in the party AND Mazzy is Good-Aligned AND Mazzy isn’t a Paladin of any kit
HULL: I heard you weren’t let into Athkatla’s paladin order.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
MAZZY: You heard correctly, Hull.  Despite not having the formal title of ‘paladin’ nor the full membership of any such order, I have chosen to live a virtuous life.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull smiles.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I’m glad someone -else- is seriously trying to be the best they can be!
<If Hull has finished his quest line and, thus, become a member of the Most Noble Order of the Radiant Heart>
HULL: Ever since I joined the Radiant Heart Order, life hasn’t been all roses, either.  It’s like waking up one day and realizing your dream was to be recognized for your moral character only to be told to keep doing that but also get back to fighting an eternal war.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
MAZZY: “Evil never sleeps.”  I have heard that phrase.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: That’s only kinda true, but there’s just so much evil in the world that one day soon, paladin orders the planes over will realize that they -need- all the virtuous help they can get!  It doesn’t matter if you’re a human, a halfling, a drow, or a dragon!  Demons, devils, and some deities are worse!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<Regardless of whether Hull has finished his paladin quest line.>
MAZZY: I understand your point, Hull.  One’s life and character matter more than one’s formal title.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Yeah.  I’m glad you’re at peace with it.
ALL: MEETING MINSC FOR THE FIRST TIME
Before Initial Meeting with Minsc
HULL: <Hull leans in toward you and whispers.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: The guy has a purple tattoo, a pet hamster, and what looks like a pretty big sword.  Probably Rashemi based on what I’ve heard.  
Feeling uncomfortable about him, Hull?
HULL: Just seems strange for a warrior to have these things.  Not the sword, though.
I’m already weirded out.  Let’s leave.
Yeah, kid.  He was difficult to read.  <End Dialog>
Let’s go meet him!
Uh, alright kid.  Maybe he’s more sane than he looks.
<End dialog with Hull.  Begin dialog with Minsc.>
ALL: MINSC/HULL BANTER
If Minsc and Hull are in the party - First Banter
HULL: <Hull looks at Minsc curiously.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Minsc, are you -sure- you aren’t some sort of arcane caster?  I’ve met a -lotta- them with familiars like bats, rats, lizards, and birds - and some more exotic familiars like imps or pseudodragons - but never a hamster.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
MINSC: Minsc and Boo are very familiar and friendly with each other!  Minsc is no witch!  Minsc and Boo protect friendly witches and make evil ones -tremble- before them!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I asked because Boo seems very smart and talkative, but only you can understand him.  Some familiars are that way.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BOO: <Boo squeaks.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
MINSC: Boo thanks you, Hull, for calling him smart!  He also wonders why the smartest of wizards has never become familiar with a hamster!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull shrugs.>
If Minsc & Hull are in the party - Second Banter
HULL: Minsc, wanna arm wrestle?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BOO: <Boo squeaks.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
MINSC: Boo warns me not to arm wrestle you, lest the awesome strength of our muscles tear apart galaxies!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Dynaheir is in the group.>
DYNAHEIR: Preposterous!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<Regardless of whether Dynaheir is in the group>
HULL: So, wanna do it?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
MINSC: Not this time, Hull.  I don’t want little Boo to be scared that he’ll break in half!
SOD/EET: MEETING M’KHIIN GRUBDOUBLER FOR THE FIRST TIME FOR RECRUITMENT
Before Initial Meeting with M’Khiin
HULL: <Hull leans in toward you and whispers.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Careful now, kid.  She looks like a goblin, and probably a witch!  She’s probably dangerous, kid, but she probably goes down quickly.  Your call.
Hull, do you actually -want- to talk with this goblin?
HULL: I’m torn, kid.  She’s a witch, but probably not a bad witch.  I hope.
We’ll leave her be this time.
HULL: Alright, kid.  Maybe that’s the best call.  <End Dialog>
Let’s talk to her.  You even seemed curious!
HULL: Alright, ya got me.  Let’s talk to her.
<End dialog with Hull.  Begin dialog with M’Khiin.>
SoD/EET: M’KHIIN/HULL BANTER
If M’Khiin and Hull are in the party
HULL: I’m... sorry for my misgivings toward you and goblinkind.  I’m glad you’re not a -bad- witch.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
M’KHIIN: <M’Khiin looks at Hull intently in the eyes.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
M’KHIIN: I am too.  <M’Khiin sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
M’KHIIN: Whatever sorrows you have faced, I have faced more.  Maybe not more -terrible- sorrows, but more sorrows.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I think you wanna talk.  So, go on.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
M’KHIIN: You’ve never been a goblin.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Well...
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
M’KHIIN: And you’ve never lived with the feeling that you were cursed to be food and slaves and worse for ‘civilized’ races - because your kind was made by some god as a cruel joke or a mistake.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Yer right.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
M’KHIIN: You felt trapped in Candlekeep, Hull?  Living in your ‘gilded cage?’
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull quietly listens.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
M’KHIIN: I felt trapped in my -body- because your god beat up -my- god and our kind knows we are born losers.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Then why do you fight?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
M’KHIIN: To do what should be done.  To do what might be impossible, Hull.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
M’KHIIN: To win.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Well, I’m glad you have -some- hope.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
M’KHIIN: Hope?  <She laughs, looking frustrated, and tears welling up in her eyes.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
M’KHIIN: I might be the only one of my kind to believe it.  I’ve seen spiritual things that my tongue can’t describe.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
M’KHIIN: I couldn’t stay in my tribe any longer, Hull.  They were content in their defeat.  They wouldn’t believe.  They -couldn’t- believe what I told you.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I’m out here too because I knew I could ‘n’ should be doin’ better.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull smiles.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I think we’ll get along -just- fine, so long as we’re on the same side.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
M’KHIIN: I plan for it to stay that way.
ALL: MEETING MONTARON & XZAR FOR THE FIRST TIME
Before Initial Meeting with Montaron & Xzar
HULL: <Hull leans in toward you and whispers.>
Kid, I don’t trust those two.
Why so distrustful of them?
HULL: The short one looks like a dirty little sneak thief and the tall one stinks of death.  You sure you wanna talk to these guys?
You’re right.  I won’t.
HULL: Alright, kid.  That’s probably safest.  <End Dialog>
I’m still interested in at least talking.
HULL: Well, you asked for it kid!
<End dialog with Hull.  Begin dialog with Montaron & Xzar.>
ALL: MONTARON/HULL BANTER
If Montaron and Hull are in the party
HULL: I -know- you’re a thief, -halfling.-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
MONTARON: Careful about what ye say, guardsman.  I just may be a coal-stained clean-shaven dwarf.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull snorts.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: If -you’re- a clean-shaven dwarf, I’m Elminster of Shadowdale!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
MONTARON: And I’ll stain yer clothes as red as his robe if ye keep pesterin’ me!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Xzar is in the party>
XZAR: Something troubling you? (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
MONTARON: Him.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Him.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
XZAR: <Xzar simply cackles.> (from his “I am become death” line here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Yer right.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<Regardless of if Xzar is in the party>
MONTARON: <Montaron snorts fiercely at Hull.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull confidently smirks at Montaron.>
BG1: MEETING MUR'NETH FOR THE FIRST TIME FOR RECRUITMENT
Before Initial Meeting with Mur’Neth
HULL: <Hull leans in toward you and whispers.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, is his body -melting?-  That’s... a sentence I don’t wanna finish.
C’mon!  Finish your sentence.
HULL: Not this time, kid.  There’s no place to go with it but down!
This thing is just creeping me out.  Let’s leave.
HULL: I’m with ya on that one, kid!  <End Dialog.>
He’s melting but not made of fire?  -That- isn’t something I’ve seen every day!  Let’s talk!
HULL: <Hull sighs.>  Kid, you find some of the -weirdest- stuff sometimes!
<End dialog with Hull.  Begin dialog with Mur’Neth.>
BG1: MUR'NETH/HULL BANTER
If Mur’Neth and Hull are in the party AND Mur’Neth is in human form
HULL: Hey Mur’Neth!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
MUR’NETH: <Mur’Neth looks curiously at Hull.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull gurgles loudly.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
MUR’NETH: <Mur’Neth quietly shakes his head.>
BG2: MEETING NALIA FOR THE FIRST TIME
Before Initial Meeting with Nalia
HULL: <Hull leans in toward you and whispers.>
That’s Nalia, kid.  I heard she’s a displaced noble, and kinda desperate.
Why not help her already?
HULL: Kid, I -also- heard there were trolls ‘n’ dragons around her family’s castle.  I wasn’t about to do it alone.
She probably has a worthy cause, but not today.
HULL: Yer really gonna ignore this noble girl in trouble?  Not my first choice, kid.  <End Dialog>
A noble in trouble?  That sounds promising and profitable!
HULL: When you put it that way, kid, I’m all aboard!
<End dialog with Hull.  Begin dialog with Nalia.>
BG2: NALIA/HULL BANTER
If Nalia & Hull are in the party:  First Banter
NALIA: Hull, you grew up in Candlekeep, right?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull shrugs at Nalia.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Right.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NALIA: Was it a rich place?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull sighs as his face twists in opposing directions.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Candlekeep is mostly a big library and research center built for the rich and very literate to keep everyone else out.  I wasn’t born in Candlekeep, but I was adopted by their guard at a very young age.  I was basically a layman among nobles - who expected -me- to handle their bags and be their pack mule and butler since they paid a high price to get in.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NALIA: Were you oppressed?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: The scholars of Candlekeep made it clear from an early age that their rules were “very strict.”  I know -why- the rules are that way, but I didn’t like how those in charge of Candlekeep loved books and rules more than people!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I just wanna know what your point is here.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NALIA: But... shouldn’t that harsh treatment be stopped?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull takes a deep breath.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I’ll put it to ya this way:  No matter who you are, where you go, or what you do, there will -always- be two groups of people - those in charge and everyone else.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: This means that those in charge make a -lotta- decisions for -everyone.-  They simply have the -authority- to do it and maybe the -power- to back it up.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: That’s why so many casters are so dangerous.  A single person might be able to take over a nation or the world through destructive force or charming persuasion.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NALIA: <Nalia frowns and sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NALIA: Isn’t there a better way?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: If you think you’ve found it, lemme know.
If Nalia & Hull are in the party - Second Banter
NALIA: Hull, I’ve been thinking about what you’ve said.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull smiles widely at Nalia.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thanks!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NALIA: And... how would you help the poor?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Teach ‘em to be rich.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NALIA: What?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I meant what I said.  Just giving ‘em money doesn’t change much.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NALIA: Why?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Think of it like this:  Give a -lotta- money to a drunk man and what’ll he probably do?  Get drunk!  Maybe he knows better, but he’s gotta -want- better and -believe- better first!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I know.  I’ve been there.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NALIA: Hull, you were a drunk?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Yeah!  Guarding Candlekeep was normally -very busy- or -very boring.-  After one of my mentors from there died, I realized I should help protect his adopted kids in the wild.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: It -also- helped that I was ready to quit actin’ like a drunk.  I was tired of being stepped on, drawn on, burnt, cut, and otherwise roughed up because I was too drunk to care.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Then I felt the pain later.  It’s called a ‘hangover’ and it’s the drink’s punishment for losing to it.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NALIA: <Nalia smiles.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But as I was saying.  Candlekeep sages taught that whatever you see and believe inside you will eventually become your reality -outside.-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: This means ya gotta -teach- people to be rich, to be better off inside -and- out.  Otherwise, yer gonna end up with a buncha rich folk who’re gonna get -very drunk- and make someone else -very rich!-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NALIA: I... I think I understand.  I just... want things to be better.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I know.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And even -if- you teach the poor to be rich, who or what’s gonna feed ‘em, clean ‘em, clothe ‘em, house ‘em, and do all that menial work that needs doin’?  Not everyone’s a caster, and not every caster can do that stuff well enough to replace a town fulla peasants.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NALIA: <Nalia sighs and frowns.>  Hull, then how would -you- fix this stuff?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Gimme a moment and we’ll talk more later.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NALIA: Thanks, Hull.
If Nalia & Hull are in the party - Third Banter
HULL: Nalia, I have ideas on how to solve this problem.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NALIA: Wow!  Really?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: They’re -ideas.-  Ready?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NALIA: Sure.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Become a god then mind control or heavily persuade the world to act the way you want.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NALIA: <Nalia stares at Hull.>  -What?-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Or just make a new reality with everything set the way you want it.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NALIA: -Why?-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Right now, you’re trying to mettle in someone else’s system.  “If you want it done right, you do it yourself.”  That’s the saying.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NALIA: Can’t we fix things as they are?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Nalia, girl, I wanna believe we can, but you’re also asking about a -major- fix to a -major- problem.  I dunno if even a Wish spell could fix that!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NALIA: <Nalia sighs, clearly frustrated and disappointed.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Right now, the best thing we can do to fix this situation is find out what rich ‘n’ powerful folk care about the poor like you do and help them help the people in need.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: It’s... kinda like climbing out of a deep pit.  -Maybe- you can crawl out.  If you’re a caster, maybe you can fly out or warp out or turn into a spider ‘n’ just get out that way.  But the common folk?  They need a rope or a tunnel.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NALIA: So, what changes, then?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: For now?  Not much.  We keep helping the good folk where we go, do charity sometimes, become gods, then fix reality.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NALIA: <Nalia smiles.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Worrying about it won’t help.  I worried about where certain friends went, but that did no good.
If Nalia & Hull are in the party:  Fourth Banter
NALIA: Hull, I have another question for you, if I may.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull shrugs at Nalia.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Go ahead.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NALIA: Why aren’t you afraid of being rich?  Doesn’t money corrupt?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I -thought- we were over this, but I’ll just say this simply, Nalia:  You’ve just seemed -obsessed- about the -idea- of helping the poor.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NALIA: <Nalia looks at Hull with concern.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But, no.  I’m -not- afraid of being rich.  I’d rather be -rich- and -well-prepared- than -dead- or -worse!-  Maybe money can’t buy happiness, but it can buy stuff to help you live long enough to wonder if it can!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Just remember, Nalia:  As much as we want to believe otherwise, we simply -aren’t- on their level anymore.  Last I checked you’re a noble-born rich wizard and the typical peasant isn’t, and last I checked, I was a super strong warrior and the typical peasant isn’t.  Talking with me about this alone doesn’t fix any of your problems!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And money doesn’t corrupt.  You’re a well-meaning rich noble.  Having the wrong inner vision or just being -taken over by some spell- does!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Until you’re powerful enough to get your way on a worldwide or planar scale, keep making plans and being patient.  Until then, you’re still a noble, they still aren’t, and you have more power.  So, just stop worrying about it and enjoy the fact you can toss a random peasant a bit of money and he’ll do pretty much anything you want to keep you happy.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And if you wanna help ‘em beyond just shinies, -you- can thank the peasants for doing their jobs like making your beds, buying drinks, or selling you your latest purchase.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I still remember when I got my first tip ‘n’ compliment when I was workin’ many years ago.  It made me realize that some people I served were, y’know, -grateful- that I was there instead of just ignorin’ me or bitchin’ at me.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull takes a deep breath.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And one last point, Nalia.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Uh.  Thanks.  What is it?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Morality alone never fixes anything.  -Action- and -results- can fix stuff.  Morality is just ideas.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: So if you want something done, do it!  Don’t just expect the world to change because you felt it should.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: What are you saying, Hull?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: If you -really- care about helping the poor, do it.  You heard me speak like I’m some Candlekeep sage.  Just thinking that you’re morally superior to others because you -want- to help the poor doesn’t fix anything.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NALIA: What?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: If you do the ‘right things,’ the reason doesn’t matter much.  You know what you wanna do and I told you my take.  As they said at the gate of Candlekeep, “Put up or shut up.”
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: That means get serious or leave.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NALIA: <Nalia pouts.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Yeah.  I know that wasn’t what you wanted to hear, and I was more serious and harsh than normal, but it -had- to be said.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I didn’t hear much about how -you- planned to fix the situation, but it’s like cutting down a tree.  Get to the root of it all, fix that, and things work better.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull sighs and smiles.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You can laugh now if you want.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NALIA: <Nalia smiles at Hull.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NALIA: Thanks, Hull.  How did you come up with these theories?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I listened to some of the best minds in the world because they had loud voices and I was bored ‘n’ sober enough to care.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NALIA: <Nalia quietly snickers.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And, well, I had a -lotta- time to think.  Being someone’s pack mule or just waitin’ around for -hours- at a time made me wonder about stuff.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: -And- sometimes I was bored ‘n’ curious enough to open some of the many books Candlekeep kept enshrined.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: We’ve been chattin’ long enough.  Let’s get going so we can save the world!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NALIA: So, more action?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Yeah.  More doing, less chatting.  Until we have -another- long walk where we’re just bored.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NALIA: <Nalia smiles and snickers at Hull.>
ALL: MEETING NEERA FOR THE FIRST TIME (BEREGOST)
Before Initial Meeting with Neera
HULL: <Hull leans in toward you and whispers.>
Kid, she looks like a crazy mage, maybe even a witch.  You sure you wanna talk with her?
What makes you say that?
HULL: Pink hair, flowing robes, feelings of uncertainty.  The phrase “Hell hath no fury like a witch scorned.”
You’re right.  I won’t.
HULL: Alright, kid.  That’s probably safest.  <End Dialog>
C’mon!  Let’s talk to this pink-haired girl!
HULL: Kid, if it gets you in trouble, I told you so.
<End dialog with Hull.  Begin dialog with Neera.>
ALL: NEERA/HULL BANTER
If Neera & Hull are in the party
NEERA: Hull, I’m, uh, glad you’d be willing to travel with a wild mage.  Not everyone is so brave, y’know?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull shrugs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: “Wild magic,” like a druid?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NEERA: I wish it were that simple!  Wild magic is the rawest and most chaotic form of magic!  I think.  It just means that sometimes, I cast something and - oops!  I just turned my friend into a squirrel or gave my worst enemy a payday.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: That seems fun at parties!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NEERA: <Neera’s head jerks back a moment as she blinks.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NEERA: You... really think so?  Wait!  Of -course- you really think so!  That’s why you said it!  Right?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Yeah.  It’s like your spells got bored of waiting for you to cast ‘em and some got drunk in the meantime.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NEERA: Yeah.  That’s, uh, a -polite- way to put it!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Do ya think you could train your wild magey skills and turn me into something big and strong instead of a squirrel?  I could go for a cloud giant or a gold dragon.  Something big ‘n’ strong ‘n’ majestic.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NEERA: Um, well, I don’t know how to control my wild surges -that- well, but there’s -gotta- be a way to fudge the results in our favor, right?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Right!  Now you’re thinkin’ like a winner!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NEERA: Well, -maybe- it wouldn’t be a wild surge that turned you into something big ‘n’ strong.  You wouldn’t mind that, right?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Not at all - at the right time!  No sense turning me into a giant dragon in a small room as a joke!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NEERA: Well, -maybe- I could do that on someone who’s trying to kill us.  But then they -would- be a dragon, so probably not.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Keep at it, Neera.  I think you’ll master your magic.  Even if it turns you into a prismatic, permanently hasted squirrel!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NEERA: Thanks.  I think.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NEERA: But if something like that -does- happen, have someone call for help, OK?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull smiles.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Sure, Neera.
BG2: MEETING NEH'TANIEL FOR THE FIRST TIME
Before Initial Meeting with Neh’taniel
HULL: <Hull leans in toward you and whispers.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, he looks like a ghost knight.  Are you sure you wanna talk to him?
Afraid of ghosts, Hull?
HULL: Kid, I’m not afraid of a ghost.  I know -you’ve- been through a lot and can handle yourself.
Let the dead bury their own dead.  Let’s leave.
HULL: OK.  <End Dialog>
A ghost?  I’m not passing this one up!  Time to meet him!
HULL: Since you insist.
<End dialog with Hull.  Begin dialog with Neh’taniel.>
BG2: NEH'TANIEL/HULL BANTER
If Neh’taniel & Hull are in the party
HULL: What’s it like being Undead?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NEH’TANIEL: Hull, my undeath has given me a new perspective on life.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I suppose it’s given you a -lot- of time to think.  I was going crazy with boredom just staring at walls in Candlekeep!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NEH’TANIEL: That was unfortunate, Hull.  My time in contemplation has led me to realize that most living beings consider death a sudden and permanent end, not realizing there is eternal work to be done.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Vengeaaaaaaance.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NEH’TANIEL: <Neh’taniel smirks.>  This may be true in my case, Hull, but it is building an ongoing -legacy.-  It is a matter of ongoing service to those to which I have pledged my service.  It is continuing in the things I have learned and -know- to be true.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: That’s deep, but it’s also kinda obvious.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NEH’TANIEL: Hull, you would be among the first to say so.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I’ve been helpin’ Gorion’s kids as I could since he died and we left Candlekeep.  I keep goin’ because I just -know- this is right!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NEH’TANIEL: What about into -eternity-, Hull?  Would you follow <CHARNAME> as <PRO_HISHER> loyal friend and bodyguard -forever- if need be?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull silently blinks.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: -Forever?-  That’s a long, -long- time!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
NEH’TANIEL: Consider it, Hull.
ALL: MEETING QUAYLE FOR THE FIRST TIME
Before Initial Meeting with Quayle
HULL: <Hull leans in toward you and whispers.>
Well, kid, that Gnome looks like the sagely sort who’ll yammer yer ears for years until they bleed, then comment on the color.
Why do you say that?
HULL: I’ve met enough of them in Candlekeep.  Beware the white beards for they have -too much to say!-
I have better things to do than listen to an old man’s yammer.
HULL: You just saved us all, kid.  <End Dialog>
I’m still curious and want to talk with him.
HULL: Well, I warned ya, kid.
<End dialog with Hull.  Begin dialog with Quayle.>
ALL: QUAYLE/HULL BANTER
If Quayle & Hull are in the party
HULL: Quayle, what happens if you find someone smarter than you?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
QUAYLE: <Quayle ponders a moment, surprised at these words.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Yeah.  You heard me.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
QUAYLE: The smart thing would be to listen to them and become even smarter!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: For once we agree!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
QUAYLE: Yes, Hull!  Now-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Let me finish.  I may not seem like it, but I may be smarter than you.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
QUAYLE: Smarter than -me?!-  Hah!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I grew up in Candlekeep in the largest library on the Sword Coast.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
QUAYLE: That’s... good.  But how’s that make you SMARTER, huh?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I listened to lectures from the greatest minds that could afford to enter like Gorion and Elminster.  I read their books.  I meditated on what they taught.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
QUAYLE: So, are you saying you’d teach me?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Yes, Quayle.  Let us start with this free lesson, a lesson I learned from my many years in Candlekeep.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
QUAYLE: And what lesson is THAT?!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull loudly clears his throat and tries to sound sagely.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: If you want to seem smart, let your actions speak for you and -stop talking so damn much about how ‘smart’ you think you are!-  No one else likes you for it!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
QUAYLE: I’m too smart for this!  (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: See?  You’re making us all want to dump you on the side of a road.  Again!
ALL: MEETING RASAAD FOR THE FIRST TIME
Before Initial Meeting with Rasaad
HULL: <Hull leans in toward you and whispers.>
Kid, he looks underdressed, like a monk or a dancer.  His jaw looks beaten up like he lost a fight.
He doesn’t seem worth our time.  Let’s ignore him.
HULL: Alright, kid.  It’s your call.  <End Dialog>
Maybe he’ll tell us what’s wrong with his jaw.  Let’s talk!
HULL: All we stand to lose is time.
<End dialog with Hull.  Begin dialog with Rasaad.>
BG2: RASAAD/HULL BANTER
If Rasaad & Hull are in the party
HULL: Rasaad, I’m sorry.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
RASAAD: <Rasaad looks at Hull, confused.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
RASAAD: Why the apology, Hull?  You have not offended me.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: It’s just that... I think you chose the wrong profession.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
RASAAD: Whatever do you mean, Hull?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: As a guy who grew up wearing a heavy metal suit on some -very- hot days in Candlekeep, that sorta stuff saved my life against some angry drunks ‘n’ hurt dogs.  I’m in better shape to be able to stand at the front and make whatever monstrosity we’re facing this week not kill us.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
RASAAD: <Rasaad smiles.>  Ah, Hull, but are you as nimble?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Probably.  I had to learn to run -really fast- to get away from some dogs who smelled some old meat stains on my armor and who wanted to eat -me!-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
RASAAD: Hull, I assure you I am not as helpless as I may appear!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Helpless?  No.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull takes a deep breath.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I’ll put it to ya this way:  If you’re a monk who wants to punch and you’re wearing a bathrobe -and- you can’t cast spells like a wizard can, you’re probably not gonna last long in a fight.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Meanwhile, a wizard casts a few spells and the fight’s over with minimal harm to himself and his allies.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
RASAAD: <Rasaad frowns.>  I... understand your concern, Hull.  However, my devotion to Selûne is unwavering.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Suit yourself!  And, hey, maybe you’ll be more useful than I thought in ways I didn’t consider!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
RASAAD: <Rasaad smiles at Hull.>  We shall see, my friend.  We shall see.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull smiles uncomfortably at Rasaad as if he’s trying to avoid saying something else uncomfortable.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull whispers to himself.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: If you live that long.
ALL: MEETING SAFANA FOR THE FIRST TIME
Before Initial Meeting with Safana
HULL: <Hull leans in toward you and whispers.>
Kid, she looks like she wants to steal yer heart with words or a knife.
Why do you say that?
HULL: I’ve met my share of feisty gals in my time.
I like my heart right where it is.  Let’s leave her be.
HULL: Yeah, kid.  Let’s leave before we change our minds!  <End Dialog>
This heart stealer seems worth a chat!
HULL: Sometimes the ride’s worth it, kid.
<End dialog with Hull.  Begin dialog with Safana.>
ALL: SAFANA/HULL BANTER
If Safana & Hull are in the party:  First Banter
HULL: So, Safana, you wanna get a drink together?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SAFANA: <Safana smirks.>  So you can try -impressing- me with your drinking skills and end up on the floor again?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull smirks at Safana.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I learned my lesson!  Less drinking and more talking.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SAFANA: <Safana smirks.>  Hull, I know you think I’m attractive.  That’s why you were coloring the floor with your vomit.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull blushes.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Am I -that- easy to read?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SAFANA: Men like you are predictable.  Some are timid.  Some are talkative.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull smirks.>  And I thought I was doing a good job of just seeming friendly!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SAFANA: <Safana smiles and chuckles.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Oh, Hull, you’re a cute one.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You’re cute if you want to be.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SAFANA: I’ll take that drink, Hull, if -you’re- buying.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull smiles and winks at Safana.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SAFANA: Just... keep your head up.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Alright, m’lady.
If Safana & Hull are in the party:  Second Banter
HULL: So, Safana, is that a dagger in your pants or are you just happy to see me?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SAFANA: <Safana smirks.>  Do you wanna reach in and find out?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull smirks at Safana.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: No!  You could have poison or caltrops in there!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SAFANA: <Safana smirks.>  You’re right, Hull.  I could.  But -do- I?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I asked -you!-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SAFANA: Well, Hull, I -am- happy to see you, and if you come close, you can see if it really -is- a dagger.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull swallows nervously.>
ALL: MEETING SANDRAH FOR THE FIRST TIME
(SANDRAH SAGA MODS)
Before Initial Meeting with Sandrah
HULL: <Hull leans in toward you and whispers.>
Kid, I’ve heard a -lot- of nasty things about this Sandrah, like how she’s had a way of bringing people together to hate her for being a self-absorbed brat.
Why do you say that?
HULL: I’ve heard a -lotta- bad rumors, kid.
Like what?
HULL: Like how reality seems to warp around her to ensure that she -always- gets her way, no matter who’s hurt.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Careful, kid.  She may try making you her puppet!
That’s not the sort of company I want.  Let’s leave her, Hull.
HULL: Yeah, kid.  Let’s leave before reality collapses!  <END DIALOG.>
Let’s meet her!  I wanna know if the rumors are true!
HULL: Sometimes the ride’s worth it, kid.
Wait.  You said the rumors were -bad.-  Nevermind!
HULL: Thanks, kid.  <End Dialog.>
I said yes.
HULL: <Hull groans.>
<End dialog with Hull.  Begin dialog with Sandrah.>
ALL: SANDRAH/HULL BANTER
(SANDRAH SAGA MODS)
If Sandrah & Hull are in the party
HULL: <Hull scowls at Sandrah.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Oh, look!  If it isn’t someone trying to be the new center of the universe!  Did Daddy Elminster crap out some Bags of Holding for you to use?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SANDRAH: Hmph.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And did he let you steal from Winthrop’s larder again?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SANDRAH: Why do you hate me, Hull?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Hate you?  No!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: When you were in Candlekeep, the guards were always trying to fetch Sandrah this and tend to Sandrah that.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SANDRAH: If you don’t like me so much, just leave.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I’d say, “You first!”  But with your abilities, we’d probably meet again soon and you’d be stuck to Gorion’s Ward like sovereign glue!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And you’re Elminster’s kid, meaning you can’t really -die-, either!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SANDRAH: Are you leaving?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull snorts.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Maybe.  But if I do, don’t try finding me.  As Imoen said, “I’ve done had enough of this!”
BG1: MEETING SARADAS
(SARADAS MAGIC)
Dialog with Saradas - Hull is in the Party
<Add this dialog option to Saradas’s.>
My friend Hull wants to say something.
HULL: Hi!  You kinda look like an old friend of mine, Gorion.  He’s come to the Friendly Arm Inn sometimes.  Whadda ya know about him?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SARADAS: <Saradas smiles at Hull.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SARADAS: Hull, I know little of him.  Gorion may have passed this way, but we never talked much.  I would think you know more about Gorion than I.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thanks, Saradas.  It was worth a try!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SARADAS: <Saradas smiles.>
SoA: MEETING SARADAS
(SARADAS MAGIC FOR BG2)
Dialog with Saradas - Hull is in the Party
<Add this dialog option to Saradas’s.>
[If the party DIDN’T TALK with Saradas in BG1] My friend Hull wants to say something.
HULL: Welcome back, Saradas!  Did the Friendly Arm Inn get too unfriendly?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SARADAS: <Saradas smiles at Hull.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SARADAS: And welcome back to you, <CHARNAME>, and you, Hull.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SARADAS: Hull, with all the hubbub about Baldur’s Gate and war in the north, I thought Athkatla would be a better place to be.  Besides, my previous post at the Friendly Arm Inn had far fewer visitors, and I can do more good here.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Suit yourself!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SARADAS: <Saradas nods.>
[If the party talked with Saradas in BG1] My friend Hull wants to say something.
HULL: Hi!  You seem familiar, like my friend Gorion was following us!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SARADAS: <Saradas smiles at Hull.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SARADAS: Perhaps I have one of those familiar faces to you, Hull.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull winks at Saradas.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SARADAS: Hull, with all the hubbub about Baldur’s Gate and war in the north, I thought Athkatla would be a better place to be.  Besides, my previous post at the Friendly Arm Inn had far fewer visitors, and I can do more good here.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Suit yourself!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SARADAS: <Saradas nods.>
ToB: MEETING SARADAS FOR THE FIRST TIME
(SARADAS MAGIC FOR BG2)
Before Initial Meeting with Saradas
HULL: <Hull leans in toward you and whispers.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, I think he’s trustworthy.  He even looks trustworthy!
[If the party talked with him as a vendor in BG1 or 2] Why do you say that?
HULL: You met him before, kid.  He’s probably still a good guy.
[If the party DIDN’T TALK with him as a vendor in BG1 or 2] Why do you say that?
HULL: He just kinda looks like Gorion.  He also seems calm.
Not right now, Hull.
HULL: Aw.  Alright.  <END DIALOG.>
Let’s meet him!
HULL: That’s a good idea!  I’m glad I suggested it!
<End dialog with Hull.  Begin dialog with Saradas.>
ToB: SARADAS/HULL BANTER
(SARADAS MAGIC FOR BG2)
If Saradas and Hull are in the party
HULL: Wow, Saradas!  You -really- looked like a younger version of Gorion to me!  You even cast spells like he did!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SARADAS: <Saradas smiles.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SARADAS: You kept mentioning this ‘Gorion’ fellow.  Who was he to you?  
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: He was a father figure to me, but I only realized that -after- he died.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SARADAS: <Saradas frowns.>  I’m sorry.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Not your fault, unless you’re also Sarevok, which let’s just say you can’t be!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SARADAS: <Saradas smiles.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But the -legendary sage Gorion- was a foster father.  I tried taking over his duties by being Uncle Hull to his adopted kids.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Imoen is in the party.>
IMOEN: Hi!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SARADAS: <Saradas nods.>
HULL: He was a Harper and friend of Elminster.  He’s the sorta man I wanted to be!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SARADAS: Then why were you not that way?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I was afraid, and so I hid.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Gorion was this big figure in Candlekeep where we grew up.  The Candlekeep guard adopted me from an early age and trained me to be one of them.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: It seemed like every time Gorion was open to teaching me about magic, I was on duty.  I hadda choose what life to live, and maybe I chose poorly.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SARADAS: I promise you this, Hull:  Magic alone will not make you happy.  It is power, yes, but so is the martial power you learned to use.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SARADAS: It’s like having all the food you want spread before you on a glorious table, Hull.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: That sounds delicious!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SARADAS: <Saradas smiles and nods.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SARADAS: But the food only helps you -if- you use it correctly.  The food is meant to nourish others and you.  Turn it into a weapon or let it rot or try to hoard it all and it will be less satisfying.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thanks, not-Gorion.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SARADAS: And thank you, Hull.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SARADAS: But are you happy with your life, even though you believe you made some mistakes?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I’d rather think so.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SARADAS: Why?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I got to fulfill more of my purpose in life.  We’re here going against gods and monsters when others in Candlekeep are staring at walls!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SARADAS: <Saradas smiles and chuckles.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But every day it also means risking being beaten, shot, frozen, hung over, electrocuted, burned, and worse!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SARADAS: Welcome to the life of being a hero.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull smirks.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SARADAS: Hull, we are doing difficult things in this world and in this life that most others could not, even if they wanted to.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SARADAS: We’re human, Hull.  We started humbly.  Fate, destiny, divinity - whatever forces guide us - put us here, together, at this right place and right time for a good reason, Hull.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SARADAS: You said you chose to be <CHARNAME>’s guardian and Uncle Hull.  Did you think this was divinely inspired?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull shrugs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SARADAS: Consider it, Hull.
BG1: MEETING SAREVOK (TEMPLE OF BHAAL) THE FIRST TIME
Before Initial Meeting with Sarevok (Temple of Bhaal)
<Append this to Sarevok’s dialog tree.>
HULL: <Hull turns to Sarevok, clearly angry!>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Sarevok, you son of a BITCH!  We should’ve never let your alter ego Koveras into Candlekeep!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SAREVOK: <Sarevok smirks.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Today we end your reign of terror in the name of the law!  Candlekeep and Gorion shall be avenged!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Prepare to be struck down for Elminster and the Harpers!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: We’re gonna rip off your head and I’ll piss down your throat!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SAREVOK: <Sarevok ignores the taunting.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SAREVOK: You are indeed family.  No other could oppose me in person.  Of course, it will not matter in the end.  I will prevail, and a new era will be born for the realms.
ToB: MEETING SAREVOK THE MIGHTY FOR THE FIRST TIME FOR RECRUITMENT
Meeting Sarevok in Hell
SAREVOK: So.  You have finally arrived.  I have been waiting for you.
<Hull turns to Sarevok, clearly angry!>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Sarevok, you BASTARD!  I -know- how you died!  You should have STAYED DEAD!  And here you are, trying to act like NOTHING WAS EVER WRONG!  Your warmongering killed Gorion and endangered us all!  Your DEATH was KARMIC JUSTICE for you, you son of a bitch!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Baeloth is also in the party.>
BAELOTH: Now you know how -I- felt when I lay dying on the bedrock of my Black Pits!
Calm DOWN, Hull!
HULL: <Hull breathes heavily and groans, his anger barely restrained!  His eyes narrowly focus on Sarevok.>
Hull, we just killed Sarevok in Hell!  We can do it again if need be!
HULL: And I am SO VERY TIRED of our enemies NOT STAYING FUCKING DEAD!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Is IRENICUS just gonna show up here and ask to team up, too?!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, I am ONE WORD away from turning Sarevok into a disfigured corpse like he did with Gorion!
Y’know what?  Kill the bastard! (Unsure if this will break the game’s scripting.  Remove the option if so.  If necessary, Sarevok just warps away.)
<Hull attacks Sarevok!>
<END DIALOG.>
Hull, death can change a man.  If he tries betraying us later, THEN you have my full permission to kill him on the spot!
HULL: <Hull groans.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I’ll be watching you, -murderer-.  <END DIALOG WITH HULL.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Baeloth is also in the party.>
BAELOTH: Allow me to introduce myself.  I am Baeloth Barrityl, more commonly known as BAELOTH THE ENTERTAINER!  Yes, I know. THAT Baeloth. Fall to your knees and beg for mercy; I'm sure you know the drill.  (from here)
<START DIALOG WITH SAREVOK.>
Sarevok is -clearly- speaking to us from a position of submission or inferiority.  He -knows- he’s lost and we’ve won.  He’s only here to fight if you provoke him!
HULL: I’ll be watching you, -murderer-.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Baeloth is also in the party.>
BAELOTH: Allow me to introduce myself.  I am Baeloth Barrityl, more commonly known as BAELOTH THE ENTERTAINER!  Yes, I know. THAT Baeloth. Fall to your knees and beg for mercy; I'm sure you know the drill.  (from here)
<START DIALOG WITH SAREVOK.>
Y’know what?  Kill the bastard!  (Unsure if this will break the game’s scripting.  Remove the option if so.)
<Hull attacks Sarevok!>
<END DIALOG.>
Y’know what?  Kill the bastard!  (Unsure if this will break the game’s scripting.  Remove the option if so.  If necessary, Sarevok just warps away.)
<Hull attacks Sarevok!>
<END DIALOG.>
Hull, what do we gain from killing him now?
HULL: Don’t ask me to think now!
Hull, don’t you want his killing power on -our- side?
HULL: <Hull groans.>
More Dialog with Sarevok/Imoen/Hull/Baeloth in Hell
IMOEN: I’m not as ‘sweet’ as you think, Sarevok.  And you don’t deserve a second chance at life!  You killed Gorion!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull looks at <CHARNAME>, clearly distraught as he nods along with what Imoen said.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Baeloth is also in the party.>
BAELOTH: -Deserve?-  What do you mean, deserve?  Sarevok surely played to win and he go -so close,- but that last round’s a killer.  I... know from experience not to -personally- intervene in combat when it might cost me my empire.
<Regardless of Baeloth in the group.>
SAREVOK: I... live!  Flesh and blood and bone!  I am alive!  Hahahahahaha!  I swore I would scratch and crawl my way back into the world of the living... and I have done it!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Sarevok, you are now our dog.  Expect to be kept on a -very- tight leash!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Baeloth is also in the party.>
BAELOTH: So, another schemer saunters into our soiree.  How satisfying!
After Initial Dialog with Sarevok in Hell
HULL: Kid, I’m gonna take a break.  All this has been overwhelming.  Drinks or not, I need personal time.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Don’t think I’m bowing out forever, kid.  Just... give me a moment alone.
How long will you take, Hull?  We have a prophecy to fulfill!
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Just... let me have some personal time.  The sooner I take it, the sooner I’m done.
Was this about Sarevok?
HULL: Kid, this is about -everything!-  It’s like you’re now the center of the universe and I’m just a tagalong!
I still need you to be my bodyguard, Hull.
HULL: And I still need -me- to be in the right mind for that!
Hull, do you need a hug?
HULL: Yeah.  I very much do.  And maybe more than one!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull hugs you tightly as he sighs, tears falling down his face.>
Take your time, Hull.  Expect me to call on you soon.
HULL: Thanks, kid.  I was gonna take it whatever you said!  <END DIALOG.  HULL LEAVES THE PARTY.>
Now is -not- the time for a break, Hull!  The world may be at stake!
HULL: That’s what -you- think!  Uncle Hull is now on break!  <END DIALOG.  HULL LEAVES THE PARTY.>
ALL: MEETING SHAR-TEEL FOR THE FIRST TIME
Before Initial Meeting with Shar-Teel
HULL: <Hull leans in toward you and whispers.>
Careful, kid.  She looks like she’s angry, violent, and has something to prove!
Is that a problem?
HULL: I didn’t say it was a problem, kid.  Just be careful.  She might try to rip someone’s head off!
I’m not in a mood to be around such a fighter.
HULL: I’m not either, kid.  <End Dialog>
All the more reason to meet her, Hull!
HULL: <Hull sighs.>  If she starts trouble with us, I got yer back, kid.
<End dialog with Hull.  Begin dialog with Shar-Teel.>
Shar-Teel Challenges Hull to a Fight
HULL: Alright, girl!  You wanna fight me?  Bring it on!  <END DIALOG.>
ALL: SHAR-TEEL/HULL BANTER
If Shar-Teel & Hull are in the party:  First Banter
SHAR-TEEL: Men are pathetic.  (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull narrows his eyes at Shar-Teel.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I’m here to wake you up from that fantasy, girl.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SHAR-TEEL: Why should I listen to a -man- like you?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: However great you think you are, just remember this.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: The only reason you’re -in- this group is because you challenged a -man- to a fight and -lost!-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SHAR-TEEL: <Shar-Teel smirks at Hull.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SHAR-TEEL: You're such a funny man!  That's why I'm gonna kill you last.  (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull smirks at Shar-Teel.>
If Shar-Teel & Hull are in the party:  Second Banter
SHAR-TEEL: Men never think with their minds. (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Really?  Because last I checked, Elminster the sage is about as manly as they come.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And it may not seem like it, but I was raised in Candlekeep.  I can -read.-  How about -you?-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SHAR-TEEL: Hmph.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SHAR-TEEL: Useless male dung heap. (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Oh, it’s like you didn’t learn your lesson the -first- time you lost to a man!  One more insult and I’ll rip off yer head and shit down your neck!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SHAR-TEEL: Really? (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: If I gotta kill ya to teach ya a lesson, I will.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SHAR-TEEL: How would you like my sword tickling your innards? (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Sounds like fightin’ words.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SHAR-TEEL: Eat steel, scum. (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<Shar-Teel and Hull become hostile to one another.>
After the Fight:  Hull Wins
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I warned ya, girl.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Now should I -really- drop my pants around here?  Seems dangerous.
After the Fight:  Shar-Teel Wins
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SHAR-TEEL: The swine had it coming. (from here)
ALL: MEETING SKIE FOR THE FIRST TIME
Before Initial Meeting with Skie
HULL: <Hull leans in toward you and whispers.>
She looks like a rich girl, probably a noble or a mage.  Mind yer manners.
Probably too snobby.  I’ll pass this time.
HULL: If you insist, kid.  <End Dialog>
Time to meet her, Hull.
HULL: You can do it, kid.
<End dialog with Hull.  Begin dialog with Skie.>
BG1: SKIE/HULL BANTER
If Skie & Hull are in the party:  First Banter
HULL: So, Skie, did you get the life of adventure you dreamed about?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SKIE: <Skie frowns and sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I’ll take that as a no.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SKIE: People just talked about life outside the estate as so -fascinating- and -exciting.-  Were they wrong?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I lived in Candlekeep for many years, sheltered from the world.  I get it, girl.  I get it.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Just readin’ about some great adventures is -so very different- from -getting out- and -doing them.-  The stories just skip over the long walks, the hunger, the fatigue, the bleeding, and the boredom.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SKIE: So, what do you think -real- adventure is?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull sighs and ponders a moment.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: The -real- adventure is going through the pain, the boredom, the fatigue, and whatever to get to the interesting parts - the fights, the treasure, the memorable stuff - then being able to share your story with those you care about.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SKIE: Like Eldoth!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Eldoth is in the party.>
SKIE: <Skie turns to Eldoth and smiles.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ELDOTH: <Eldoth smiles and winks back at Skie.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<Regardless of whether Eldoth is in the party.>
HULL: <Hull shrugs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: If you say so.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
If Skie & Hull are in the party:  Second Banter
SKIE: Hull, what got you adventuring?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: When one of my Candlekeep mentors, the -legendary sage Gorion- left home one night and died protecting his kid from some thugs, I realized -that’s- how a -man- should act.  I realized I was wastin’ away in Candlekeep, and something in me told me that -this- was the time to get up, get out, and make a difference in the world!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Yeah, I could die.  Yeah, I could regret it.  But if I did nothing, I was probably gonna die in Candlekeep as a bored drunk who acted like a pack mule for sages and nobles and stared at walls -way- too often.  I -knew- I was gonna regret -that!-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Since I left, life hasn’t just been a long dress-up festival and shopping trip.  The world didn’t stop being dangerous just because Uncle Hull wanted odda Candlekeep.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But the second reason I wanted to leave was because I heard stories of major stuff happenin’ in the world.  War was comin’ to Baldur’s Gate, and Drizzt didn’t seem like he was gonna stop it all by himself.  I didn’t know what Elminster was gonna do, even though he was friends with Gorion.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Drizzt is in the party.>
HULL: No offense, Drizzt.  You’re still a hero to me.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: No offense taken, Hull.  The world needs more heroes than just my friends and myself.
<Regardless of whether Drizzt is in the party.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I also knew that Candlekeep wasn’t gonna miss me much if I left.  I think Candlekeep guards exist to make nobles feel good about ordering someone else to carry their stuff.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull shrugs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SKIE: But I still wanna see beholders, dragons, drow, and-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Careful what you ask for, girl.  They might find you before you find ‘em then kill ya or enslave ya before ya ever had a chance to figure out what happened!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SKIE: What?!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Most of ‘em are dangerous.  They either don’t care if you live or they -just want you dead.-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You -really- wanna know what adventuring’s about?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SKIE: Of course!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Adventuring is war, girl.  It ain’t like seeing some dragons in paintings or in a zoo.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SKIE: I... I don’t know what to say.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Skie, if yer serious about this ‘adventure’ you wanna go on, ask yourself if you’re ready to go to war.  If you are, do it with people ya trust to get the job done right.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SKIE: <Skie squirms a bit, her face suddenly looking uncomfortable.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SKIE: I... I think I understand.  But-.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SKIE: <Skie groans and whines loudly.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SKIE: Isn’t there, oh, a -better- way?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull sternly shakes his head.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You want comfort?  Stay at home.  You want war?  You leave and go all in.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SKIE: <Skie rolls her eyes.>  Thanks, Hull.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You too, girl.  Uncle Hull’s just lookin’ out for ya!
ALL: MEETING TIAX FOR THE FIRST TIME
Before Initial Meeting with Tiax
HULL: <Hull leans in toward you and whispers.>
He looks like a desperate, dirty, crazy little thief.
Why do you say that?
HULL: All shorties are thieves until proven otherwise, and I heard something about “Cyric,” a crazy evil deity.  Be careful, kid!
Thanks for the warning, Hull.  We’ll just leave.
HULL: That may’ve been the sanest thing you’ve done all day!  <End Dialog>
He’s worth a conversation, at least.
HULL: I’ll back you up as best I can, kid.  I still don’t -trust- him, though.
<End dialog with Hull.  Begin dialog with Tiax.>
ALL: TIAX/HULL BANTER
If Tiax & Hull are in the party
HULL: Tiax, how can you be sure your god is the one whispering into your mind?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TIAX: You -dare- question the mighty Tiax?!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Yes.  For good reason.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TIAX: Then Tiax will question -you-, slave, as to why you bother him so.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I grew up in Candlekeep.  I know a -bunch- about magic, gods, and that sorta stuff.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: How can you be sure that you aren’t just listening to a cursed item or a mind flayer you -think- is your god?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TIAX: <Tiax opens his mouth to shout at Hull but pauses a moment.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TIAX: Tiax KNOWS it is the will of Cyric for him to rule, even if Cyric used some lesser being to tell him!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull sighs and shrugs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TIAX: Tiax WILL rule ALL!  (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull shakes his head dismissively.>
If Valygar & Hull are in the party:  Second Banter
HULL: You have that look like ya got somethin’ on your mind.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VALYGAR: This is true, Hull.  I must ask you a serious question.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Go ahead.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VALYGAR: What would stop someone from entering Candlekeep and using the knowledge within to destroy the world?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Nothing.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VALYGAR: <Valygar looks at Hull, concerned.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VALYGAR: Hull... is that a joke?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Only kinda.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VALYGAR: Explain.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Well, what’s stopping someone from finding some ancient secret in a long-lost tomb or a remote corner of reality then using it to destroy the world?  Same answer.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And, well, ‘nothing’ may be the ‘wrong’ answer, but it’s really up to whoever has that power.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Imagine some archmage wakes up one day and writes in his journal, “Do I feel like destroying all of reality today?”  Then he writes “Yes” and “No” then underlines his answer.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VALYGAR: Then what is your stance on magic, Hull, having grown up in the center of so much of it?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Magic is like money.  It’s a fine tool and it makes stuff in this world work.  The more you have and the better you use it, the more powerful and the better off you are.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VALYGAR: What about the ill effects?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Well, just because you -can- do something doesn’t mean you automatically -should.-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Just because you -can- get so drunk you can’t feel your fingers doesn’t mean you -should.-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Just because you -can- make a life size statue of yourself out of glue, paint, and rocks doesn’t mean you -should.-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Just because you -can- stand at attention all night believing that you’re invisible doesn’t mean you -should.-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And so on.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VALYGAR: What do you believe regarding those who abuse their magic abilities, those that -can- and -do- but -should not?-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Depends on what happens.  Did they turn their chair into a squirrel?  If so, that might be good for a laugh.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Did they turn their beloved king into a chair?  If so, that’s probably bad, but it’s good for a laugh in another way!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VALYGAR: How are you not concerned about the rampant use of magic across the realms?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: It’s like fire.  Yeah, you can hate fire if it hurts you, like it burns down your house, but it also cooks your food and makes you feel yummy so it’s hard to hate -all- fire.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull smiles.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VALYGAR: I... see.  I am not so naive as to believe magic has no place in this world, but it is like you said:  Magic, like fire, should be handled with care.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Exactly!
BG2: MEETING VALYGAR FOR THE FIRST TIME
Before Initial Meeting with Valygar
HULL: <Hull leans in toward you and whispers.>
Kid, he looks like a loner.  He’s probably a forest ranger or a thief.
Why do you say that?
HULL: Remember where we found him, kid.
Loners are best left alone.
Suit yourself, kid.  <End Dialog>
Time to make this ‘loner’ stop being a loner!
HULL: That’s a fine way to put it.
<End dialog with Hull.  Begin dialog with Valygar.>
BG2: VALYGAR/HULL BANTER
If Valygar & Hull are in the party:  First Banter
HULL: Valygar, you’re looking at me that way again.  What is it?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VALYGAR: Hull, you are a fine warrior, sure, but how can you remain so unconcerned about your magical heritage?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: What?  Candlekeep?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VALYGAR: I mean -exactly- that.  Candlekeep is the densest home of magic and mages in the realms and yet you... are not some cackling mad wizard.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VALYGAR: You are like a paradox, Hull.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull smiles and stands in a heroic pose before Valygar.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Well, Valygar, magic is all around us.  Being suspicious of -all magic- is like being suspicious that -all food- you eat is poisoned.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VALYGAR: I... see.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: At some point, weapons ‘n’ armor must be magical enough to be useful against the magic creatures you fight and to help you handle the magic effects they use.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VALYGAR: Hmm...
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And if you’re hurt, sick, blinded, or puking your guts out, most healing is -also- magic.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VALYGAR: You have a point, Hull.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Yeah.  But I get it.  You get hurt hard by something and -that- pain doesn’t just get easily magicked away.  Or waited away.
If Valygar & Hull are in the party:  Second Banter
HULL: You have that look like ya got somethin’ on your mind.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VALYGAR: This is true, Hull.  I must ask you a serious question.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Go ahead.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VALYGAR: What would stop someone from entering Candlekeep and using the knowledge within to destroy the world?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Nothing.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VALYGAR: <Valygar looks at Hull, concerned.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VALYGAR: Hull... is that a joke?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Only kinda.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VALYGAR: Explain.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Well, what’s stopping someone from finding some ancient secret in a long-lost tomb or a remote corner of reality then using it to destroy the world?  Same answer.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And, well, ‘nothing’ may be the ‘wrong’ answer, but it’s really up to whoever has that power.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Imagine some archmage wakes up one day and writes in his journal, “Do I feel like destroying all of reality today?”  Then he writes “Yes” and “No” then underlines his answer.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VALYGAR: Then what is your stance on magic, Hull, having grown up in the center of so much of it?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Magic is like money.  It’s a fine tool and it makes stuff in this world work.  The more you have and the better you use it, the more powerful and the better off you are.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VALYGAR: What about the ill effects?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Well, just because you -can- do something doesn’t mean you automatically -should.-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Just because you -can- get so drunk you can’t feel your fingers doesn’t mean you -should.-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Just because you -can- make a life size statue of yourself out of glue, paint, and rocks doesn’t mean you -should.-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Just because you -can- stand at attention all night believing that you’re invisible doesn’t mean you -should.-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And so on.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VALYGAR: What do you believe regarding those who abuse their magic abilities, those that -can- and -do- but -should not?-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Depends on what happens.  Did they turn their chair into a squirrel?  If so, that might be good for a laugh.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Did they turn their beloved king into a chair?  If so, that’s probably bad, but it’s good for a laugh in another way!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VALYGAR: How are you not concerned about the rampant use of magic across the realms?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: It’s like fire.  Yeah, you can hate fire if it hurts you, like it burns down your house, but it also cooks your food and makes you feel yummy so it’s hard to hate -all- fire.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull smiles.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VALYGAR: I... see.  I am not so naive as to believe magic has no place in this world, but it is like you said:  Magic, like fire, should be handled with care.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Exactly!
ALL: MEETING VICONIA FOR THE FIRST TIME
Before Initial Meeting with Tiax
HULL: <Hull leans in toward you and whispers.>
A Drow on the surface?  She’s probably a wicked lost priest of Lolth from what I read in Candlekeep.
Why do you say that?
HULL: -All- Drow are evil, spider demon worshippers if they ain’t named Drizzt!  That’s just how they are, kid!
Thanks for the warning, Hull.  We’ll just leave.
HULL: That may’ve been the sanest thing you’ve done all day!  <End Dialog>
I’ve wanted to meet such a Drow in person.  Let’s talk!
HULL: Careful about your curiosity, kid, before you get us killed!
<End dialog with Hull.  Begin dialog with Viconia.>
ALL: VICONIA/HULL BANTER
If Viconia & Hull are in the party
VICONIA: Hull, you have seemed... strange, for a male on the surface.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I know I’m different.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VICONIA: <Viconia calmly continues.>  Why are you not chasing me down to have me hanged or burned or worse?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: What?  Because you’re a drow?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VICONIA: Siyo.  Ahem.  Yes.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Not all drow are bad.  Hearing the tales of Drizzt since he left the Underdark made me realize some people just wanna help the world, y’know?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VICONIA: <Viconia looks at Hull, clearly uncomfortable.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VICONIA: While I thank you for not simply calling me a witch or a traitor, but speak no more to me of House Do’Urden!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Drizzt is in the party.>
DRIZZT: Hull, let us say that the relationship between House DeVir and House Do’Urden was never a happy one.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<Regardless of whether Drizzt is in the party.>
VICONIA: House Do’Urden destroyed House DeVir, my home!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VICONIA: But... if Drizzt Do’Urden’s ‘reform’ is what inspired you to spare me, I shall accept your belbol.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Drizzt is in the party.>
VICONIA: And I shall tolerate -your- presence, for now.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: G’rftte.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<Regardless of whether Drizzt is in the party.>
HULL: Whatever you said, thanks.  Now you know so let’s go!
SOD/EET: MEETING VOGHILN THE MIGHTY FOR THE FIRST TIME FOR RECRUITMENT
Before Initial Meeting with Voghiln
HULL: <Hull leans in toward you and whispers.>
Now, -there’s- a guy I’d like to meet!  He looks strong, manly, and ready to enjoy a drinking contest!
What makes you say that, Hull?
HULL: Kid, I’ve read enough about Icewind Dale to know one when I see one.  Besides, Fuller from Candlekeep had some distant family from the Ten Towns.
Hull, I’d rather we stay sober and say no.
HULL: Please don’t make me beg, kid.  Remember all the times I saved -your- life!  <End Dialog>
Oh, alright.  We’ll meet him.
HULL: Thanks, kid.  Set aside s’more coin for our drinking fund.  <End dialog with Hull.  Begin dialog with Voghiln.>
I said no.
HULL: You may be right, kid, but I -still- don’t like it!  <End Dialog>
Maybe he’ll be fun, Hull.  Let’s talk to him!
HULL: Better keep some antidotes ready, kid.  We might need ‘em for my favorite hangover cure!
<End dialog with Hull.  Begin dialog with Voghiln.>
SoD: VOGHILN/HULL BANTER
If Voghiln & Hull are in the party
VOGHILN: What is this curious stare at me, Hull?  Something troubling you?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Well, yer right about the curiosity.  Growing up in Candlekeep, one of the guards there named Fuller said he had some distant relatives in the Icewind Dale Region.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOGHILN: Ah, I see what you mean.  We do look a lot alike, ja?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Well, you two -are- human.  Yer tall, strong, broad-shouldered...
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You can sing better than he can.  Someone said our drunken ditties sounded like gargling zombies!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOGHILN: Well, thank you for the compliment.  But what are you saying?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I dunno if you two are some distant relatives or what.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOGHILN: Ah!  But you, Hull, are a -strong- one like me and enjoy a good -drink-, ja?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: A good drink, yeah.  Not drinkin’ so much I throw up, black out, or taste the floor!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOGHILN: Well, nevermind the blood!  You can be my battle brother!  I can teach you to sing while we arm wrestle, ja?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull smiles and snickers at Voghiln.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Alright, man.  I’ve never had a brother.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOGHILN: It’s simple, you see.  I teach you how to sing like a true warrior and have all the tall, strong girls throwing themselves at you like stones!  You teach me how to drink oceans of ale and still fight like a man!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull smiles and winks at Voghiln.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: It’s a deal... brother.
ALL: MEETING XAN FOR THE FIRST TIME
Before Initial Meeting with Xan
HULL: <Hull leans in toward you and whispers.>
Kid, that mage looks frail, even for an elfblood.  He might pass out if you talk to him!
You’re right.  We’ll do ourselves a favor and leave him be.
HULL: You’re a fine listener when you wanna be, kid.  <End Dialog>
Maybe he’s worth talking to and helping.
HULL: Kid, I’ll just... humor you this time.
<End dialog with Hull.  Begin dialog with Xan.>
ALL: XAN/HULL BANTER
If Xan & Hull are in the party
XAN: We’re all doomed! (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: We’re -not- all doomed, you fool!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
XAN: I have seen visions of a past life where I was a powerful gith wielding a katana in each hand!  Now... I am -this!-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Quit yer bitchin’ before I send you into your -next- life!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull stares at Xan with fire in his eyes!>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
XAN: <Xan looks nervously at Hull!>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You’ve been warned.
BG2: MEETING WILSON FOR THE FIRST TIME
Before Initial Meeting with Wilson
HULL: <Hull leans in toward you and whispers.>
Kid, this bear seems friendly.  Seeing him makes me want him as a pet!
What’s your story behind this?
HULL: My father told me about my aunt Lily.  She was a warrior who kept a Dire Bear named Thumper as a pet and a mount.  No one questioned either of ‘em!
What happened to them?
HULL: I dunno, kid.  I never met Lily Thumper!
I’d rather not get involved with this bear.
HULL: Please?  <End Dialog>
Oh, alright.  Let’s find out more about this bear.
HULL: Thanks, kid.  <End Dialog with Hull.  Begin dialog with Wilson.>
I said no.
HULL: <Hull groans.>  <End Dialog>
Hey, bear!  We’re friendly!  Wanna talk?
HULL: And bear, can I be your new owner?
<End dialog with Hull.  Begin dialog with Wilson.>
BG2: WILSON/HULL BANTER
If Wilson & Hull are in the party
HULL: <Hull looks at Wilson and smiles.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Who’s a good killer bear?  You are!  You are!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Go forth our bear friend and bite the faces off our foes!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
WILSON: <Wilson growls in approval.>
ALL: MEETING YESLICK FOR THE FIRST TIME
Before Initial Meeting with Yeslick
HULL: <Hull leans in toward you and whispers.>
Kid, he just seems like a trustworthy, wise dwarf.  I’m for talkin’ with him if you are.
Hull, I’m just not in the mood to talk with him now.
HULL: Your loss, kid.  I hope you’ll reconsider.  <End Dialog>
If you think he’s trustworthy, let’s talk with him.
HULL: Kid, I’m glad we agree.
<End dialog with Hull.  Begin dialog with Yeslick.>
ALL: YESLICK/HULL BANTER
If Yeslick & Hull are in the party:  First Banter
HULL: Yeslick, I, uh, got a question for ya.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
YESLICK: Ah, Hull.  What be yer question?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Why are so many dwarves so similar?  It’s like all I heard about dwarves was smithing, fighting, drinking, and healing.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
YESLICK: Well, Hull, it ain’t technically true, and I figured ye knew that.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Yeah.  I did.  But why is this so true?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
YESLICK: Well, Hull, that’s largely our nature.  A dog barks.  A bird flies.  Dwarves were made to be at home with the land above and the land below.  We harvest the land above for food and harvest the land below for ores and jewels.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
YESLICK: And we’re normally pretty good at what we do.  I can tell yer pretty good in a fight with yer preferred weaponry.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Yessir.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
YESLICK: And I know you had a thing for drinkin’ like a dwarf.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull blushes.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
YESLICK: Well, ye ain’t a dwarf, Hull, but sometimes ye act like one.  Just like some humans love castin’ their illusions but they aren’t gnomes.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Uh, don’t you want to try being somethin’ else?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
YESLICK: <Yeslick shrugs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
YESLICK: Well, Hull, maybe ye think it’s boring or bad that I didn’t wanna change.  It’s profitable.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Go on.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
YESLICK: Ye want somethin’ crafted well?  A properly-prepared dwarf can make armor ‘n’ weapons ready for war, or cut some gems to make many envious, or brew something you’ll never forget -if- ye can hold yer liquor!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull smiles.>
YESLICK: Got some wounds that need healin’ or some malady that needs removin’?  Many dwarf priests can handle those, too.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
YESLICK: While we dwarves may act a lot the same and enjoy it, we also got a good lot in life.  Let’s just say the gods smiled upon us when they birthed dwarvenkind -far- more than goblins or kobolds.  These races didn’t get the short end of the stick:  They got a small bit o’ bark ‘n’ were stuck with it.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I get it.  Thanks, Yeslick.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
YESLICK: And thank -ye-, Hull, fer askin’!  Every once in a while someone needs an education.
ALL: XZAR/HULL BANTER
If Xzar & Hull are in the party
HULL: Xzar, I don’t think you’re all bad.  I think I’m beginning to like you!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Montaron is in the group.>
HULL: Unlike your associate Montaron over there.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
MONTARON: I’ve got a blade with yer name on it.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I do too.  How convenient!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
MONTARON: <Montaron snorts at Hull.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
MONTARON: Go suck yer blade.  (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
Regardless of whether Imoen is in the group
XZAR: Whatever do you mean?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Your banter makes the journey more amusing.  With all the voices you do, it’s like you’re preparing for a one man puppet show!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
XZAR: Hardy har harrrrrr, Hull!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Montaron is in the party.>
MONTARON: Do ye truly want yer last words to be so stupid?  (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
XZAR: Oh, come on, Montaron, lighten up. Must you be so moody all the time? (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
MONTARON: <Montaron snorts at Xzar.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<Regardless of whether Montaron is in the party.>
XZAR: You amuse me, Hull.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Yeah.  I know!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
XZAR: When I destroy all of creation, I look forward to killing you -last-, Hull.  -Then- we can have our puppet show ALL to ourselves!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull snickers.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Xzar, thanks.  I think.
BG2: BAELOTH’S RECRUITMENT & REMOVAL FROM PARTY
Baeloth in BGII is available to recruit soon after starting Chapter 2.
This quest takes place in Small Teeth Pass and is accessible as soon as chapter 2 by talking with Lehtinan or Hendak in the Copper Coronet.  One of the Coronet's most valuable employees (Baeloth, but not mentioned by name) went missing and they each want to know what happened to him for their reasons.  They mark the area on the world map and parties can go there immediately via Athkatla's City Gate.
When the party arrives, they notice the area with tens of Hathran (Witches of Rashemen) and Red Wizards (Faerunian mortal enemies) fighting among themselves to the death.  They can't be talked to, and killing them gives no EXP nor items.  Oddly, these creatures leave no corpses if killed.
In the center of the area is a Teleport Circle graphic from SoD but it doesn't warp anyone anywhere.  Around the circle are corpses of civilians and nobles.  Baeloth is at the center, unconscious, and missing a finger - and his Barrityl's Burden ring.  He isn't bleeding.  Healing Baeloth’s HP will make him talkative again and he can join the party soon after.
(Talking to Baeloth immediately returns him to consciousness and removes the Hathran and Red Wizards.)
Conjure him in the Pocket Plane.
Dialog Tree After Being Healed But Before Recruitment
BAELOTH: Oh, confound it! (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: My finger is FLAYED?!  What witchery is at work?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: <Baeloth blinks, noticing you.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: First things first…
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Do I know you? (from here)
<Pick one.>
Know you?  Probably not.  I’m an adventurer who was passing this way.
BAELOTH: I’m here, and I hear.  (From here.)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: I suppose congratulations are in order.  Wandering one, you were well-prepared to welcome me back to the waking world.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: However, I too am an adventurer of sorts.  What is adventure if not accompanied by allies and associates?
I helped save your life.  I think a reward is well-warranted.
BAELOTH: You have my respect.  That is a hard reward to ignore.
        <Pick one.>
Thank you.  That will suit me fine.
BAELOTH: Wise words.
I deal in blood and gold.  You’re giving me one of these.  Now.
BAELOTH: A <PRO_MANWOMAN> after my own heart?  How appropriate!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: I’ve already bestowed enough of my blood today.  Count your coins and carry on!
<The party receives 2956 coins.>
Respect is nice, and money is useful, but I deal in favors.  I helped save your life.  Expect me to call in a favor from you sometime.
BAELOTH: <Baeloth grins.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: So, you know how this game of life is -truly- played - favors for favors?  I -like- that.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<Baeloth snaps his fingers and tosses the party a metallic skull coin.>
BAELOTH: Keep the coin until you can wait no longer.  Bring it back to me and we’ll consider the favor repaid.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: The coin is usable only once.  No replacements nor refunds.
Are you saying we should join forces?
BAELOTH: Of course, my cadre!  The world would be -woefully- bored without me!
Let’s team up, Baeloth.
BAELOTH: We do wonderful work!  I’m impressed.  (From here.)
<END DIALOG.  BAELOTH JOINS THE PARTY.>
Joining forces?  Not this time, Baeloth.
BAELOTH: Aah!  (From here.)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Well, wandering one, I shall head to Athkatla’s Copper Coronet.  Surely by then your senses will act sensibly!
<END DIALOG.>
Explanations first, Baeloth, and then we -might- team up.
BAELOTH: Aye?  (From here.)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: <Baeloth blinks then takes a deep breath.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: I once bound a Djinn to my will who betrayed me and conspired with certain creatures -who will remain nameless.-  He heaped on me a burden I could no longer bear, a cursed ring and proof of partnership!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: So I found a new associate, another Djinn to do my bidding.  Nullifying Najim’s wicked wards was more wearisome than I wanted!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: These broken bodies before us were meant as wonderful witnesses to this entertaining event, a new birth for Baeloth the Entertainer!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: They fled to me for refuge as, in my delirium from blood loss, a woefully-worded wish caused such a calamity, causing their corpsification!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: However, burying my burden from my previous partner was a stunning success!
Why were all the people fighting around here?
BAELOTH: A Djinn’s imagination and penchant for interesting interpretation of orders knows no bounds.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: I vaguely recall armies fighting each other.  What happened?
Witches and Wizards were fighting each other!  Maybe other things were part of this, too!
BAELOTH: So, perhaps I’ve found a dutiful Djinn after all!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Or perhaps it was something more silly or sinister.
What happened to that second Djinn you claimed helped you?
BAELOTH: Returned to sender.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: I suppose my bond with it dropped once I passed out from the pain.  You may deem it pathetic.  I call it a powerful release!
[If the party is on the quest “Copper Coronet’s Combat Caller”] Someone at the Copper Coronet said you were missing.  You’ve been gone so long, you were replaced - but you’re welcome to return.
BAELOTH: Inconceivable!  (From here.)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Well, my world-wandering one, what say we have some words with the Copper Coronet about their choices, hmm?
I helped save your life.  I think a reward is well-warranted.
BAELOTH: You have my respect.  That is a hard reward to ignore.
        <Pick one.>
Thank you.  That will suit me fine.
BAELOTH: Wise words.
I deal in blood and gold.  You’re giving me one of these.  Now.
BAELOTH: A <PRO_MANWOMAN> after my own heart?  How appropriate!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: I’ve already bestowed enough of my blood today.  Count your coins and carry on!
<The party receives 2956 coins.>
Respect is nice and money is useful, but I deal in favors.  I helped save your life.  Expect me to call in a favor from you sometime.
BAELOTH: <Baeloth grins.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: So, you know how this game of life is -truly- played - favors for favors?  I -like- that.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<Baeloth snaps his fingers and tosses the party a metallic skull coin.>
BAELOTH: Keep the coin until you can wait no longer.  Bring it back to me and we’ll consider the favor repaid.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: The coin is usable only once.  No replacements nor refunds.
Are you saying we should join forces?
BAELOTH: Of course, my cadre!  The world would be -woefully- bored without me!
Let’s team up, Baeloth.
BAELOTH: We do wonderful work!  I’m impressed.  (From here.)
<END DIALOG.  BAELOTH JOINS THE PARTY.>
Joining forces?  Not this time, Baeloth.
BAELOTH: Aah!  (From here.)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Well, wandering one, I shall head to Athkatla’s Copper Coronet.  Surely by then your senses will act sensibly!
<END DIALOG.>
Explanations first, Baeloth, and then we -might- team up.
BAELOTH: Aye?  (From here.)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: <Baeloth blinks then takes a deep breath.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: I once bound a Djinn to my will who betrayed me and conspired with certain creatures -who will remain nameless.-  He heaped on me a burden I could no longer bear, a cursed ring and proof of partnership!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: So I found a new associate, another Djinn to do my bidding.  Nullifying Najim’s wicked wards was more wearisome than I imagined!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: These broken bodies before us were meant as wonderful witnesses to this entertaining event, a new birth for Baeloth the Entertainer!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: They fled to me for refuge as, in my delirium from blood loss, a woefully-worded wish caused such a calamity, causing their corpsification!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: However, burying my burden from my previous partner was a stunning success!
Why were all the people fighting around here?
BAELOTH: A Djinn’s imagination and penchant for interesting interpretation knows no bounds.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: I vaguely recall armies fighting each other.  What happened?
Witches and Wizards were fighting each other!  Maybe other things were part of this, too!
BAELOTH: So, perhaps I’ve found a dutiful Djinn after all!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Or perhaps it was something more silly or sinister.
What happened to that second Djinn you claimed helped you?
BAELOTH: Returned to sender.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: I suppose my bond with it dropped once I passed out from the pain.  You may deem it pathetic.  I call it a powerful release!
We were through Hell and back!  We were separated after we returned to Baldur’s Gate and I was ambushed.
BAELOTH: So -that’s- where you went!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: I must admit I was... disappointed when we were suddenly separated.  I quite enjoyed our joint venture.  If I recall correctly, you were -quite- competent in combat!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Clearly, I have excellent taste in selecting gladiators. (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: So, shall we continue this show and bring more violent delights to the masses?
I helped save your life.  I think a reward is well-warranted.
BAELOTH: You have my respect.  That is a hard reward to ignore.
        <Pick one.>
Thank you.  That will suit me fine.
BAELOTH: Wise words.
I deal in blood and gold.  You’re giving me one of these.  Now.
BAELOTH: A <PRO_MANWOMAN> after my own heart?  How appropriate!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: I’ve already bestowed enough of my blood today.  Count your coins and carry on!
<The party receives 2956 coins.>
Respect is nice and money is useful, but I deal in favors.  I helped save your life.  Expect me to call in a favor from you sometime.
BAELOTH: <Baeloth grins.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: So, you know how this game of life is -truly- played - favors for favors?  I -like- that.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<Baeloth snaps his fingers and tosses the party a metallic skull coin.>
BAELOTH: Keep the coin until you can wait no longer.  Bring it back to me and we’ll consider the favor repaid.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: The coin is usable only once.  No replacements nor refunds.
Are you saying we should join forces?
BAELOTH: Of course, my cadre!  The world would be -woefully- bored without me!
Let’s team up, Baeloth.
BAELOTH: We do wonderful work!  I’m impressed.  (From here.)
<END DIALOG.  BAELOTH JOINS THE PARTY.>
Joining forces?  Not this time, Baeloth.
BAELOTH: Aah!  (From here.)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Well, wandering one, I shall head to Athkatla’s Copper Coronet.  Surely by then your senses will act sensibly!
<END DIALOG.>
Explanations first, Baeloth, and then we -might- team up.
BAELOTH: Aye?  (From here.)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: <Baeloth blinks then takes a deep breath.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: I once bound a Djinn to my will who betrayed me and conspired with certain creatures -who will remain nameless.-  He heaped on me a burden I could no longer bear, a cursed ring and proof of partnership!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: So I found a new associate, another Djinn to do my bidding.  Nullifying Najim’s wicked wards was more wearisome than I imagined!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: These broken bodies before us were meant as wonderful witnesses to this entertaining event, a new birth for Baeloth the Entertainer!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: They fled to me for refuge as, in my delirium from blood loss, a woefully-worded wish caused such a calamity, causing their corpsification!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: However, burying my burden from my previous partner was a stunning success!
Why were all the people fighting around here?
BAELOTH: A Djinn’s imagination and penchant for interesting interpretation knows no bounds.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: I vaguely recall armies fighting each other.  What happened?
Witches and Wizards were fighting each other!  Maybe other things were part of this, too!
BAELOTH: So, perhaps I’ve found a dutiful Djinn after all!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Or perhaps it was something more silly or sinister.
What happened to that second Djinn you claimed helped you?
BAELOTH: Returned to sender.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: I suppose my bond with it dropped once I passed out from the pain.  You may deem it pathetic.  I call it a powerful release!
I beat your Black Pits, Baeloth.  Don’t you recognize your former champion?
BAELOTH: Ah, you have returned!  Are you ready to spill blood on the arena floor? (from here)
I -am-, Baeloth!  YOURS!
BAELOTH: Agh!  Exit stage... left? (from here)
<Baeloth Dimension Doors out of the game world and can’t be recruited in SoA.>
I think we’re too late already.  Just look at all the bodies around here!
BAELOTH: What a point you present.
I helped save your life.  I think a reward is well-warranted.
BAELOTH: You have my respect.  That is a hard reward to ignore.
        <Pick one.>
Thank you.  That will suit me fine.
BAELOTH: Wise words.
I deal in blood and gold.  You’re giving me one of these.  Now.
BAELOTH: A <PRO_MANWOMAN> after my own heart?  How appropriate!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: I’ve already bestowed enough of my blood today.  Count your coins and carry on!
<The party receives 2956 coins.>
Respect is nice and money is useful, but I deal in favors.  I helped save your life.  Expect me to call in a favor from you sometime.
BAELOTH: <Baeloth grins.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: So, you know how this game of life is -truly- played - favors for favors?  I -like- that.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<Baeloth snaps his fingers and tosses the party a metallic skull coin.>
BAELOTH: Keep the coin until you can wait no longer.  Bring it back to me and we’ll consider the favor repaid.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: The coin is usable only once.  No replacements nor refunds.
Are you saying we should join forces?
BAELOTH: Of course, my cadre!  The world would be -woefully- bored without me!
Let’s team up, Baeloth.
BAELOTH: We do wonderful work!  I’m impressed.  (From here.)
<END DIALOG.  BAELOTH JOINS THE PARTY.>
Joining forces?  Not this time, Baeloth.
BAELOTH: Aah!  (From here.)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Well, wandering one, I shall head to Athkatla’s Copper Coronet.  Surely by then your senses will act sensibly!
<END DIALOG.>
Explanations first, Baeloth, and then we -might- team up.
BAELOTH: Aye?  (From here.)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: <Baeloth blinks then takes a deep breath.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: “What witchery is at work?” you may wonder.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: I once bound a Djinn to my will who betrayed me and conspired with certain creatures -who will remain nameless.-  He heaped on me a burden I could no longer bear, a cursed ring and proof of partnership!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: So I found a new associate, another Djinn to do my bidding.  Nullifying Najim’s wicked wards was more wearisome than I imagined!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: These broken bodies before us were meant as wonderful witnesses to this entertaining event, a new birth for Baeloth the Entertainer!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: They fled to me for refuge as, in my delirium from blood loss, a woefully-worded wish caused such a calamity, causing their corpsification!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: However, burying my burden from my previous partner was a stunning success!
Why were all the people fighting around here?
BAELOTH: A Djinn’s imagination and penchant for interesting interpretation knows no bounds.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: I vaguely recall armies fighting each other.  What happened?
Witches and Wizards were fighting each other!  Maybe other things were part of this, too!
BAELOTH: So, perhaps I’ve found a dutiful Djinn after all!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Or perhaps it was something more silly or sinister.
What happened to that second Djinn you claimed helped you?
BAELOTH: Returned to sender.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: I suppose my bond with it dropped once I passed out from the pain.  You may deem it pathetic.  I call it a powerful release!
You’re a vulnerable Drow alone in the wilderness.  No one will mourn your death.
BAELOTH: Agh!  Exit stage... left? (from here)
<Baeloth Dimension Doors out of the game world and can’t be recruited in SoA.>
[The speaker has 15 or less CHA] How could you forget that debt you couldn’t pay, Baeloth?  I bet in your Black Pits and was told to come back later once you had the funds.  Adjusted for interest, you owe me 29,562 coins or something of at least that much value.
BAELOTH: Oh.  -That- fight.  I remember now.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: <Baeloth blinks.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Nice try.  I already paid out.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: However, if you felt so frustrated at my financial frugality, what say you start a joint venture and make up the difference?
I helped save your life.  I think a reward is well-warranted.
BAELOTH: You have my respect.  That is a hard reward to ignore.
        <Pick one.>
Thank you.  That will suit me fine.
BAELOTH: Wise words.
I deal in blood and gold.  You’re giving me one of these.  Now.
BAELOTH: A <PRO_MANWOMAN> after my own heart?  How appropriate!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: I’ve already bestowed enough of my blood today.  Count your coins and carry on!
<The party receives 2956 coins.>
Respect is nice and money is useful, but I deal in favors.  I helped save your life.  Expect me to call in a favor from you sometime.
BAELOTH: <Baeloth grins.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: So, you know how this game of life is -truly- played - favors for favors?  I -like- that.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<Baeloth snaps his fingers and tosses the party a metallic skull coin.>
BAELOTH: Keep the coin until you can wait no longer.  Bring it back to me and we’ll consider the favor repaid.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: The coin is usable only once.  No replacements nor refunds.
Are you saying we should join forces?
BAELOTH: Of course, my cadre!  The world would be -woefully- bored without me!
Let’s team up, Baeloth.
BAELOTH: We do wonderful work!  I’m impressed.  (From here.)
<END DIALOG.  BAELOTH JOINS THE PARTY.>
Joining forces?  Not this time, Baeloth.
BAELOTH: Aah!  (From here.)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Well, wandering one, I shall head to Athkatla’s Copper Coronet.  Surely by then your senses will act sensibly!
<END DIALOG.>
Explanations first, Baeloth, and then we -might- team up.
BAELOTH: Aye?  (From here.)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: <Baeloth blinks then takes a deep breath.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: I once bound a Djinn to my will who betrayed me and conspired with certain creatures -who will remain nameless.-  He heaped on me a burden I could no longer bear, a cursed ring and proof of partnership!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: So I found a new associate, another Djinn to do my bidding.  Nullifying Najim’s wicked wards was more wearisome than I imagined!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: These broken bodies before us were meant as wonderful witnesses to this entertaining event, a new birth for Baeloth the Entertainer!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: They fled to me for refuge as, in my delirium from blood loss, a woefully-worded wish caused such a calamity, causing their corpsification!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: However, burying my burden from my previous partner was a stunning success!
Why were all the people fighting around here?
BAELOTH: A Djinn’s imagination and penchant for interesting interpretation knows no bounds.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: I vaguely recall armies fighting each other.  What happened?
Witches and Wizards were fighting each other!  Maybe other things were part of this, too!
BAELOTH: So, perhaps I’ve found a dutiful Djinn after all!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Or perhaps it was something more silly or sinister.
What happened to that second Djinn you claimed helped you?
BAELOTH: Returned to sender.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: I suppose my bond with it dropped once I passed out from the pain.  You may deem it pathetic.  I call it a powerful release!
[The speaker has 16+ CHA] How could you forget that debt you couldn’t pay, Baeloth?  I bet in your Black Pits and was told to come back later once you had the funds.  Adjusted for interest, you owe me 29,562 coins or something of at least that much value.
BAELOTH: Augh... NOT AGAIN!  <Baeloth pukes.> (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: <Baeloth takes a moment to regain his composure.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Oh.  -That- fight.  I remember now.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: <Baeloth blinks.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: I’m short on coin, but I can offer you the clothes off my back to cover the difference.
<Baeloth gives over his Robe of the Evil Archmage and 8300G.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Since we’ve settled our debts, I vote we make a joint venture and show the Sword Coast what we can do!
I helped save your life.  I think an additional reward is well-warranted.
BAELOTH: You have my respect.  That is a hard reward to ignore.
        <Pick one.>
Thank you.  That will suit me fine.
BAELOTH: Wise words.
I deal in blood and gold.  You’re giving me one of these.  Now.
BAELOTH: You already have my coin -and- the clothes off my back!  What else is there to give?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Ah!  Pat down the pockets of that robe and you shall produce a coin of greater compensation than everything else you’ve claimed!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<The party receives Baeloth’s Skull Coin.>
BAELOTH: <Baeloth grins.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: So, here’s a hint, my money-hungry one:  This game of life is -truly- played in favors for favors.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Keep the coin until you can wait no longer.  Bring it back to me and we’ll consider the favor repaid.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: The coin is usable only once.  No replacements nor refunds.
Are you saying we should join forces?
BAELOTH: Of course, my cadre!  The world would be -woefully- bored without me!
Let’s team up, Baeloth.
BAELOTH: We do wonderful work!  I’m impressed.  (From here.)
<END DIALOG.  BAELOTH JOINS THE PARTY.>
Joining forces?  Not this time, Baeloth.
BAELOTH: Aah!  (From here.)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Well, wandering one, I shall head to Athkatla’s Copper Coronet.  Surely by then your senses will act sensibly!
<END DIALOG.>
Explanations first, Baeloth, and then we -might- team up.
BAELOTH: Aye?  (From here.)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: <Baeloth blinks then takes a deep breath.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: I once bound a Djinn to my will who betrayed me and conspired with certain creatures -who will remain nameless.-  He heaped on me a burden I could no longer bear, a cursed ring and proof of partnership!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: So I found a new associate, another Djinn to do my bidding.  Nullifying Najim’s wicked wards was more wearisome than I imagined!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: These broken bodies before us were meant as wonderful witnesses to this entertaining event, a new birth for Baeloth the Entertainer!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: They fled to me for refuge as, in my delirium from blood loss, a woefully-worded wish caused such a calamity, causing their corpsification!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: However, burying my burden from my previous partner was a stunning success!
Why were all the people fighting around here?
BAELOTH: A Djinn’s imagination and penchant for interesting interpretation knows no bounds.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: I vaguely recall armies fighting each other.  What happened?
Witches and Wizards were fighting each other!  Maybe other things were part of this, too!
BAELOTH: So, perhaps I’ve found a dutiful Djinn after all!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Or perhaps it was something more silly or sinister.
What happened to that second Djinn you claimed helped you?
BAELOTH: Returned to sender.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: I suppose my bond with it dropped once I passed out from the pain.  You may deem it pathetic.  I call it a powerful release!
Baeloth can be conjured from the Fate Spirit.
BG2 - (Re)recruitment
General (re)recruitment line:
BAELOTH: Do you beckon Baeloth the Entertainer to bestow his benevolence upon you?
If you mean, “Do you want to join my team?” then yes, Baeloth.
BAELOTH: Let me entertain you!  (From here.)
<Baeloth joins the party.>
Let’s not join forces yet.  Maybe later.
BAELOTH: Is there REALLY no one else you can bother?  (From here.)
If Baeloth is removed from the party, by default, he will head to the Copper Coronet (SoA) and the Pocket Plane (ToB).
Too Many Party Members
BAELOTH: Agh!  Exit stage... left?  (From here.)
Being Removed from Party - Wait Here
BAELOTH: Bah! Baeloth Barrityl's bound to do better without your bevy of brutes.  (From here.)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: When you tire of life without my wondrous ways, return to me -right here.-  In the meantime, I shall try to relish the quiet for new revelations.
Being Removed from Party - SoA
BAELOTH: Bah! Baeloth Barrityl's bound to do better without your bevy of brutes.  (From here.)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: When you tire of life without my wondrous ways, come call for me in Athkatla’s Copper Coronet.
Being Removed from Party - ToB
BAELOTH: Bah! Baeloth Barrityl's bound to do better without your bevy of brutes.  (From here.)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: When you tire of life without my wondrous ways, pick me up in your Pocket Plane.
ALL: HULL’S RECRUITMENT & REMOVAL FROM PARTY
Hull’s recruitment process is intentionally simple:  Finish his Candlekeep quest, and instead of the usual, “I owe you one” sentiment he leaves you with, he instead accompanies Imoen to the map immediately east of Candlekeep right after Gorion gets killed like Obi-Wan dying to Darth Vader in Star Wars IV: A New Hope.
He was accompanying Firebeard Elvenhair out of the gate when he noticed Imoen prowling around Candlekeep and cautiously confronted her.  They each had a similar idea:  Find out what was happening with Gorion and <CHARNAME>, but for somewhat different reasons.  Imoen, your adoptive sister, missed you and wanted to help you in your quest.  Hull was more curious about Gorion leaving Candlekeep and how it connected to Baldur’s Gate and Amn being at war.  Hull was also pretty sure that the [i]big magical light show[/i] he saw was from some casters in the distance and not from festival fireworks.  Besides, Hull was bored by expecting to stare at walls for hours at a time while on duty.
<CHARNAME> can choose to accept or reject Imoen or/and Hull separately.  (They aren’t a duo like Xzar and Montaron.)
        Before CHARNAME is falsely imprisoned in Candlekeep, if Hull is recruited but leaves the party, he’ll return to the Friendly Arm Inn by default.  After this, he’ll return to the Elfsong Tavern in Baldur’s Gate city by default.
        Bringing Hull inside the Friendly Arm Inn the first time will also trigger him leaving the party and walking to the bar where he’ll wait to be recruited.
Image Credit
Image Credit
Friendly Arm Inn recruitment line (BG1):
HULL: So, kid, I was glad to be on break.  Say the word and I’ll report for duty to join forces, like in the tales!  Part of me will be glad to see what’s happening with this iron crisis and war with Amn.
Hull, what makes you think I or we would do something worth remembering?
HULL: Kid, I heard assassins wanted you dead in Candlekeep.  It’s a waste of time to try to kill a nobody.  I figured you’d need guarding, and since you got me my sword back, I’m more trustworthy than some mercenary.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Besides, kid, Gorion thought you were special enough to adopt!  That says a -lot!-
Join me and we’ll be partners in this journey that is life.
HULL: Alright, kid.  I knew you’d need me!  Let’s go!  <END DIALOG.>
[If Drizzt isn’t in the party like from Drizzt Saga] Sorry, Hull, but not right now.
HULL: It was worth a shot.  I’ll probably be around here for if you change yer mind.
[If Drizzt IS in the party like from Drizzt Saga] Sorry, Hull, but not right now.
HULL: Wait!  It looks like Drizzt is with you!  PLEASE let me join you and make my dreams come true!
Alright, Hull.  Wish granted.
HULL: <Hull starts crying tears of joy.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thank you!  This means more to me than you may ever know!  <Continue with Hull’s dialog tree as if the party had let him join.>
Hull, not this time.  Maybe later.
HULL: Kid, I -swear- I’ll find some way to make this worthwhile to you!
It’s a deal, Hull.  I might call in a favor any time.
HULL: <Hull starts crying tears of joy.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thank you!  This means more to me than you may ever know!  <Continue with Hull’s dialog tree as if the party had let him join.>
What part of ‘No’ didn’t you understand?  ‘No’ means ‘No,’ not ‘Try again!’
HULL: <Hull just silently glares at you in disgust!>  <END DIALOG WITH HULL.>
Grovel for me, Hull.  -Maybe- I’ll let you join.
HULL: <Hull falls to the floor in the sleeping human Fighter animation.>  Please, PLEASE let me join you!
Alright, Hull.  Wish granted.  
HULL: <Hull starts crying tears of joy as he stands.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thank you!  This means more to me than you may ever know!  <Continue with Hull’s dialog tree as if the party had let him join.>
Not this time, Hull.  Remember, ‘No’ means ‘No,’ not ‘Try again!’
HULL: <Hull just silently glares at you in disgust!>  <END DIALOG WITH HULL.>
By default, he’s recruitable in Elfsong Tavern in East Baldur’s Gate city initially, then later in the Coalition Camp.  His dialog responses are the same, but his meeting line differs.
Image Credit
Image Credit
Elfsong Tavern recruitment line (SoD):
HULL: Kid, I heard the bridge in Wyrm’s Crossing was down and plenty of people told me -you- were to thank for it.  So, thanks!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: It’s been -way too long- since I got out of my routine of guarding Candlekeep and not expecting much to happen.  I was glad to let someone -else- guard that gilded cage that is Candlekeep for a change.
<Continue with Hull’s recruitment dialog.>
Coalition Camp recruitment line if he hasn’t yet joined the party at least once (SoD):
HULL: Kid, after all the mumbling from Candlekeep’s guards about, “I shoulda joined the army,” I finally did.  I simply -had- to find ya, kid, the Candlekeep-raised Hero of Baldur’s Gate.  Here we are!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: It’s been -way too long- since I got out of my routine of guarding Candlekeep and not expecting much to happen.  I was glad to let someone -else- guard that gilded cage that is Candlekeep for a change.
<Continue with Hull’s recruitment dialog.>
Coalition Camp recruitment line if he has joined the party at least once (SoD):
HULL: Kid, we’re at war like I thought, but not with Amn.  All the talk in Candlekeep about, “I shoulda joined the army,” got me thinkin’ I should come here.  I’d like to join ya, kid.  Now’s the right time for heroics!
Hull, I’m not sure if I should’ve expected to find you here.  What do you plan to do now?
HULL: Kid, since I left Candlekeep, I figured we would team up - maybe right wrongs, slay dragons, get paid, and do -far- more interesting things than stare at walls all day!
[If Hull WAS in the party at least once in BG1 or SoD so far] Still have your gear from our previous travels?
HULL: Of -course-, kid!  I could always use some upgrades, though.
[If Hull hasn’t yet joined the party in SoD] How did you get all that fancy gear, Hull?
HULL: I -thought- you’d like it!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But anyway, kid.  I told ‘em you, the adopted child of the -legendary sage Gorion- was now the -Hero of Baldur’s Gate!-  I wanted in on this, kid, and some of the Candlekeep casters reluctantly agreed to bring you something!
What do you mean ‘reluctantly?’
HULL: C’mon, kid!  You know those monks & sages from Candlekeep are better friends with books ‘n’ scrolls than they are with people!  When you returned a while back, most of ‘em didn’t even notice you left!
What’s this about Gorion?
HULL: Gorion did his best to keep ya safe, kid, and I’ll do my best to do an even -better- job!
Gorion?  He had grown weak and frail by the time Sarevok killed him.
HULL: So -that’s- what happened?  At least Sarevok’s dead!
Please don’t compare yourself to Gorion.
HULL: Sorry, kid.  I was tryin’ to help.  I still wanna guard you, though, if you’ll let me.
Gorion was a legend, yes.  If you’re trying to exceed him, you have a high standard to meet, Hull!
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Yeah, kid, I know.
The fact that you came here to help me means a lot to me, Hull.  Maybe Gorion taught you well in Candlekeep, too!
HULL: He sure did, kid.  Gorion led by an example I plan to follow!  Just don’t expect me to jump into being a wizard who wears a bathrobe everywhere!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: it would need to be a -very- powerful bathrobe!
Let’s talk about something else.
HULL: Next!
What’d you bring me, Hull?
HULL: Well, me!  I’m ready to help with all this fancy gear!  Your faithful bodyguard and fellow citizen of Candlekeep!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: What were you expecting, Elminster with a Bag of Holding?
<Pick one.>
Actually, yes, Hull!  <wink>
HULL: Maybe next time, kid.
No, not really, but I -was- expecting -some- sort of tribute.  Baldur’s Gate calls me a hero!  And there was much rejoicing!
HULL: Let’s join up ‘n’ I can buy ya a drink.  Or maybe a keg!
It’ll probably be dangerous and there might be a lot to explain, but you can join me if you want.
HULL: It’s a deal, kid!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Here, kid.  Take this ‘n’ buy us some drinks.  Or kegs.  <THE PARTY GAINS 100G.  END DIALOG WITH HULL.>
[If Drizzt isn’t in the party like from Drizzt Saga] I’m flattered you came for me, but maybe later, Hull.
HULL: It’s understandable, kid, but I still don’t like it.  Look for me around here if you want me.
[If Drizzt IS in the party like from Drizzt Saga] I’m flattered you came for me, but maybe later, Hull.
HULL: Wait!  It looks like Drizzt is with you!  PLEASE let me join you and make my dreams come true!
Alright, Hull.  Wish granted.
HULL: <Hull starts crying tears of joy.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thank you!  This means more to me than you may ever know!  <Continue with Hull’s dialog tree as if the party had let him join.>
Hull, not this time.  Maybe later.
HULL: Kid, I -swear- I’ll find some way to make this worthwhile to you!
It’s a deal, Hull.  I might call in a favor any time.
HULL: <Hull starts crying tears of joy.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thank you!  This means more to me than you may ever know!  <Continue with Hull’s dialog tree as if the party had let him join.>
What part of ‘No’ didn’t you understand?  ‘No’ means ‘No,’ not ‘Try again!’
HULL: <Hull just silently glares at you in disgust!>  <END DIALOG WITH HULL.>
Grovel for me, Hull.  -Maybe- I’ll let you join.
HULL: <Hull falls to the floor in the sleeping human Fighter animation.>  Please, PLEASE let me join you!
Alright, Hull.  Wish granted.  
HULL: <Hull starts crying tears of joy as he stands.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thank you!  This means more to me than you may ever know!  <Continue with Hull’s dialog tree as if the party had let him join.>
Not this time, Hull.  Remember, ‘No’ means ‘No,’ not ‘Try again!’
HULL: <Hull just silently glares at you in disgust!>  <END DIALOG WITH HULL.>
By default, he’s recruitable in the Copper Coronet in the Slums District in Athkatla.  He’s sitting or standing near the northeastern most rectangular table against a wall.
Image Credit
NOTE: Hull starts with a buncha items, including a plot-crucial Scroll Case with documents inside.  For BGT or EET, since he starts with all his gear from BG1/SoD, his inventory may be full.  Thus; put the scroll case in his inventory and, as prudent, put whatever item was replaced onto that northeastern rectangular table - effectively in that container.
Copper Coronet recruitment line (SoA):
HULL: Kid, after what happened in Baldur’s Gate, I kinda thought the war with Amn would be over, but I got a nagging feeling I should come in person to check.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: This is one time I -hate- being right!
Who are you again?  Why do you think you know me?
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, either it’s been a long, busy time or something’s messed with yer head!  Either way, your Uncle Hull here is ready to help you fulfill your destiny!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: We were friends in Candlekeep where we grew up.  I’m only a bit older than you, but your foster father Gorion adopted you and raised you as a full member of Candlekeep!  The Candlekeep Guard took me in and raised me as a guardsman.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: We were friends, and we helped each other out sometimes.  Maybe you’d be trying to find your adopted sister Imoen during hide and seek and I told you where she was hiding.  Maybe I was drinking an ocean of beer because I was bored out of my skull and I asked you to get me some antidotes for the hangover that I -knew- was comin’!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: After Gorion died, I realized I didn’t hafta live like that anymore.  In Candlekeep, life was normally easy and boring.  The guard was there to stand around, haul stuff, give directions, and look pretty.  We might help innkeep Winthrop butcher a cow or somethin’ but there was hardly anything worth actin’ like a military man for.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: After Gorion died, I left Candlekeep and did my best to help you fulfill whatever great purpose in life Gorion had for you.  And Imoen.  After all, it wasn’t like the sages of Candlekeep were fond of adopting or pushing out kids!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I liked and trusted Gorion.  He was a kind, wise, and trustworthy man.  Sometimes I’d listen in on his lessons, but that ass Ulraunt, the guy in charge of Candlekeep, didn’t like even the guards ‘mettling’ in the dealings of the monks, scribes, and casters.  I got scolded enough times to realize I was second-rate in Candlekeep.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And after I left Candlekeep, I went lookin’ for ya.  I figured you were some important person in the making, like Drizzt or Elminster, and we were friends -before- you were famous!  Besides, it wasn’t like I was gonna leave Candlekeep without a plan!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And, well, we’re here!  We’re hundreds of miles from home and probably the farthest from home we’ve ever been.  I’ve missed you, buddy!
Aw!  I missed you too, Hull!
HULL: <Tears - probably tears of joy - stream down Hull’s face.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Shucks, kid, I’m crying just hearing that!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But they are the -manliest- of tears!
I didn’t miss you specifically, but I’m glad you came.  We need friends at times like these!
HULL: <Hull smiles and sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Not the “I missed you, too, Hull,” that I was wanting but at least you’re honest.
You’re here, Hull?  Good!  Let’s get to work immediately!
HULL: Breathe, kid!  I know it seems like the fate of the world is entirely up to you, but you sound like you’re rushin’ it!
So, Hull, did you go on a drinking tour of Amn while you were waiting for me to arrive?
HULL: Yeah, kid.  It wasn’t as fun as I thought it’d be.
Are you going sober on me, Hull?
HULL: <Hull laughs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Sounds like the right think to do, eh, kid?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But really, kid, it’s probably because I wasn’t focused on gettin’ rip-roarin’ drunk like I did when I was bored odda my skull in Candlekeep.  It was just a tame tasting while I was on duty lookin’ for ya.
You didn’t even wait for me?
HULL: <Hull smiles and winks.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I didn’t know when you’d come by, kid.  I was checkin’ taverns for info - rumors and the like - and I figured I’d just try a buncha places around town.
What were the results of this tavern tour, Hull?
HULL: Pretty predictable.  Athkatla’s a port town so it has a lotta options.  The expensive places sold fancy drinks that tasted fancy - like they were aged longer, kept in better cellars, magically treated, that sorta thing.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: The cheap places sold ‘beer’ that was probably, actually beer, but I wouldn’t wanna go back.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: The Copper Coronet’s brew’s pretty good for its price.  Not the best in town and Winthrop’s stuff is a bit better, but it’ll do.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I didn’t do any formal written report, kid.  I was too focused on finding you.
At least it kept you busy and probably not drunk, Hull.  Probably.
HULL: You said it!
Hull, people don’t just travel hundreds of miles like that on a whim, right?  Why did you -really- come for me?
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, I was worried for ya.  I felt sorry for ya after all that life put ya through with Gorion’s murder and the trouble in Baldur’s Gate.  You became a hero to the Baldur’s Gate people, and I thought you were worth findin’ and protectin’.
Are you trying to act like Gorion to me?
HULL: Yeah, kid.  I am.  Because if Gorion can raise a foster child to be a hero, I want in on this.  I wanna be a hero like Gorion and you!
<Pick one.>
Thanks, Hull.
HULL: Thanks, kid.  You probably needed that and -I- certainly did!
Hull, I’m not -trying- to be a hero!
HULL: Stopping Sarevok sure made a buncha people think you were!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Even if the news wasn’t very popular around here, just own up to being the hero you are, kid.
A hero you say?  I hope you brought me a medal!
HULL: <Hull smiles.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Candlekeep didn’t have any hero medals, but I’m sure you can find something even better around here!
Are you trying to be a hero?
HULL: <Use the same response line as above, “Are you trying to act like Gorion to me?”>
Hull, how long have you been waiting around for me?
HULL: I dunno, kid.  I lost track of time, but I think I put those personal tracking lessons I gave ya to good use!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But I’ve probably been here for a couple weeks, at least.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: When you went missin’, I went lookin’.
<Pick one.>
Thanks, Hull.
HULL: Kid, I’m glad -you- thought so!  I got a pretty good idea of where stuff is around here, but I still could be surprised.
Hull, as my bodyguard, I trusted you with my life!  I still got captured!  What happened?
HULL: <Hull sighs and looks at you with a pained expression.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, I did what I could, but it seems fate made stuff happen the way it did.
Of everyone from Candlekeep who could find me here, why you?
HULL: I volunteered!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull smiles proudly.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Everyone else was comfy enough where they were.  I thought I told ya, kid, that I was bored odda my skull just starin’ at walls for days at a time.  Besides, you helped me out of enough troubles in Candlekeep to make you seem trustworthy.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And you’re normally better company than trying to hone my martial skills on rats, barrels, training dummies, and my shadow.  Not the undead kind.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
Hull, how did you find me?  How did you get here?
HULL: Kid, after Gorion’s funeral in Candlekeep, I heard some of the guards talkin’ about how they missed ya.  I talked with Tethtoril and he got some scryin’ and teleportin’ goin’.  He said the weather outside Candlekeep was too cold for comfort, so he warped back.  I was pretty sure it’d be a one-way trip before I let him take us here.
What do you mean by ‘one way trip?’
HULL: Kid, Tethtoril ain’t the kind to leave Candlekeep very much.  He’s too comfy there, too well-established.  He sometimes claims he’s too old to tour the world, but I’m pretty sure Gorion was a few years older, and -he- was pretty spry!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Tethtoril’s earned his right to stay at home and live a cozy life as a scholar.
Why meet me at this bar?
HULL: Kid, Tethtoril got me the general area of where you went.  I still had to walk ‘n’ talk my way around the city.  I figured here would be a good place for rumors ‘n’ information, legal ‘n’ not.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Besides, he whispered something about Mystra showing him something about you in a dream.  I dunno what it was, but he said it was like a copper crown dripping with red blood surrounding a large, glowing bright green circle.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Then he left with a hug and an encouraging smile.  He’s looking out for ya too, kid!
Of all the people who could warp you to Amn, why Tethtoril?
HULL: He’s liked you ever since Gorion brought ya to Candlekeep.  He’s always looked out for the little ones.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Or if he didn’t, he put on a -very- good act!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Then again, maybe he regretted focusing so much on his work that he never -had- any kids!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Maybe he saw everyone younger than him as a student, and he’d rather be a sorta foster daddy as a teacher.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: He’s helped me at least a few times, too.  He taught me that simple spells can cure hangovers -and- drunkenness!  He also warned me that he wouldn’t fix this stuff for me -every- time.
[If Hull joined the party at least once already - for BGT or EET] Still have your gear from our previous travels?
HULL: Of -course-, kid!  I could always use some upgrades, though.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I heard Amn’s richer than Candlekeep, so it’s a good place to check!
[If Hull hasn’t already joined the party in BG1 nor SoD] How did you get all that fancy gear, Hull?
HULL: I -thought- you’d like it!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But anyway, plenty of rich ‘n’ powerful casters came to Gorion’s funeral and paid their respects with magic items.  I took some before I left.  Tethtoril said I could.
What did you bring me, Hull?
HULL: I wanted to keep it as a surprise, but go ahead ‘n’ check my pockets like you’re an excited child!  Or Imoen!  <Hull smiles widely.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Imoen is in the party.>
IMOEN: Hmm.  <used voiced line from here>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I wasn’t sure what you needed, and I felt uncomfortable taking -everything- meant for Gorion, AND I had to sell some stuff to pay for food, drink, lodging, and information.
What?  No Bag of Holding to go with all this?  <wink>
HULL: It wasn’t in the pile, kid.  <Hull winks.>
Thanks, Hull!
HULL: If we ever go back to Candlekeep, don’t mention it.  I don’t want others to think it’s stolen.
Hull, I’m sorry you felt that way.  What do you plan to do now?
HULL: Well, kid, I figured since you’re alive, your Uncle Hull would guard yer back wherever ya went - and you’d guard mine!
[If Drizzt isn’t in the party like from Region of Terror] I’m flattered you came for me, but maybe later, Hull.
HULL: <Hull groans.>  It -was- a long way, kid, but I see yer point.  <Hull sighs.>  I’ll likely be around here when you’re ready.
[If Drizzt IS in the party like from Region of Terror] I’m flattered you came for me, but maybe later, Hull.
HULL: Wait!  It looks like Drizzt is with you!  PLEASE let me join you and make my dreams come true!
Alright, Hull.  Wish granted.
HULL: <Hull starts crying tears of joy.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thank you!  This means more to me than you may ever know!  <Continue with Hull’s dialog tree as if the party had let him join.>
Hull, not this time.  Maybe later.
HULL: Kid, I -swear- I’ll find some way to make this worthwhile to you!
It’s a deal, Hull.  I might call in a favor any time.
HULL: <Hull starts crying tears of joy.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thank you!  This means more to me than you may ever know!  <Continue with Hull’s dialog tree as if the party had let him join.>
What part of ‘No’ didn’t you understand?  ‘No’ means ‘No,’ not ‘Try again!’
HULL: <Hull just silently glares at you in disgust!>  <END DIALOG WITH HULL.>
Grovel for me, Hull.  -Maybe- I’ll let you join.
HULL: <Hull falls to the floor in the sleeping human Fighter animation.>  Please, PLEASE let me join you!
Alright, Hull.  Wish granted.  
HULL: <Hull starts crying tears of joy as he stands.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thank you!  This means more to me than you may ever know!  <Continue with Hull’s dialog tree as if the party had let him join.>
Not this time, Hull.  Remember, ‘No’ means ‘No,’ not ‘Try again!’
HULL: <Hull just silently glares at you in disgust!>  <END DIALOG WITH HULL.>
You came all this way for me?  Let’s go all the way together!
HULL: -That’s- the spirit, kid!  Let’s go!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And kid, I heard what happened to Imoen.  She got taken by some crazy mage in the town square.  Sorry about that.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Imoen is in the party.>
HULL: But, hey, it looks like she’s here and in good shape!  Good job, kid!
<Regardless of whether Imoen is in the party, continue with these responses.>
Wait, Hull!  How did you know about that?
HULL: Bad news traveled fast around here, kid.
Why didn’t you try to stop it?
HULL: I only heard about it -after- it happened!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: This wasn’t a days-long battle, kid.  Before witnesses knew what was happening, it was done!
[If Alternatives mod is installed and Imoen hasn’t joined the party since the Imoen/Irenicus fight scene such as being in BG2 Chapter 6 or with Imoen 4 Ever installed] Got any leads on how to get Imoen back?
HULL: Yeah, kid.  There was a messenger for a paladin named Aster who came by here recently.  He said he was looking for some risk takers of strong reputation.
[If Alternatives mod is installed and Imoen hasn’t joined the party since the Imoen/Irenicus fight scene such as being in BG2 Chapter 6 or with Imoen 4 Ever installed] Are you saying Aster will help us to get Imoen back? 
HULL: It’s worth a shot, kid!
[If Imoen has joined the party since the Imoen/Irenicus fight scene such as being in BG2 Chapter 6 or with Imoen 4 Ever installed] Hull, I already freed Imoen from captivity.  Don’t worry!
HULL: Well, -that’s- good news!  Let’s go, then!  <END DIALOG WITH HULL.>
[If the party hasn’t left for Spellhold yet] I have a plan to get Imoen back.  Let’s go get her, Hull!
HULL: -That’s- the spirit!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And going after Imoen -still- seems like a trap.  Better be prepared to spring it!
Are you saying Imoen’s captor is patiently waiting for us?
HULL: I dunno, kid, but I just got a feeling he wants you two there, together.
Less conversion and more action.  Onward!
HULL: For Gorion and Imoen!  <END DIALOG WITH HULL.>
Hull is Removed from Party on Brynnlaw/Spellhold Island, Sahuagin City, or in the Underdark (BG2 Chapters 4 or 5):
HULL: Kid, I don’t wanna part ways here, but I don’t like this place much either.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: If we -are- splittin’ up, I planned to just find a way back to the Copper Coronet in Athkatla.  I don’t trust this place enough to stick around.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
Hull, let’s travel together.  I’m sorry if you got the wrong impression about splitting up here.
HULL: Good, kid!  <END DIALOG.>
Hull, are you in or out?
HULL: Kid, I’m with ya.  I’d rather be here helpin’ out, but if you wanna spare me the pain of bein’ here, I’ll leave.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I’d rather guard ya here, though.
If you don’t trust this place -that much,- you’re better off taking a break in Athkatla.
HULL: <Hull frowns and sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Ya sure, kid?  We’ve been through a lotta bad stuff together!  We can do this, too!
Whatever I said, let’s just keep going together.
HULL: Thanks, kid.  I’ll take that as, “You’re right, Hull.” <END DIALOG.>
Hull, I meant what I said.  We split up here and now.
HULL: I know you want to spare me the pain of this, but...
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I -really- don’t wanna hafta leave.  We’re like family, kid!
Alright, Hull.  You persuaded me.  You can stay.
HULL: -Finally!-  Don’t try that on me again!  <END DIALOG.>
The time for negotiation is over.  You can find your own way back.
HULL: <Hull sighs and shakes his head.  Tears start falling down his face.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Come back, kid, and in good condition!  I’m countin’ on it!
<If Imoen is in the party.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You too, Imoen.
Everyone in Candlekeep is too!  Good luck out there.  <HULL IS REMOVED FROM THE PARTY AND RETURNS TO HIS RECRUITMENT SPOT IN THE COPPER CORONET.>  <END DIALOG.>
By default, he’s recruitable in the Pocket Plane.
Pocket Plane recruitment line (ToB):
HULL: Whoa!  Kid, one moment I recall lookin’ for ya in Athkatla and now... I found ya here.  What happened?  Where the HELL am I?!
I’m pretty sure you’re IN Hell!  This is Bhaal’s pocket dimension.
HULL: Kid, I got a -LOTTA- questions!  How’zbout I join you and we talk?
[If Hull joined the party at least once already] Still have your gear from our previous travels?
HULL: Of -course-, kid!  I could always use some upgrades, though.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I’m pretty sure we can find something better considering how powerful you are!
[If Hull hasn’t joined the party at least once] How did you get all that fancy gear, Hull?
HULL: I -thought- you’d like it!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But anyway, plenty of rich ‘n’ powerful casters came to Gorion’s funeral and paid their respects with magic items.  I took some before I left.  Tethtoril said I could.
[If the party didn’t already get these items from him in SoA] What did you bring me, Hull?
HULL: I wanted to keep it as a surprise, but go ahead ‘n’ check my pockets like you’re an excited child!  <Hull smiles widely.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I wasn’t sure what you needed, and I felt uncomfortable taking -everything- meant for Gorion.
What?  No Bag of Holding to go with all this?  <wink>
HULL: It wasn’t in the pile, kid.  <Hull winks.>
Thanks, Hull!
HULL: If we ever go back to Candlekeep, don’t mention it.  I don’t want others to think it’s stolen.
Join me, Hull, and together we can conquer the world!
HULL: If you say so, kid.  Count me in!
[If Drizzt isn’t in the party like from Region of Terror] On second thought, not right now.
HULL: <Hull sighs.>  Well, kid, I’ll be around here if you change your mind.  Wherever this weird place is.
[If Drizzt IS in the party like from Region of Terror] I’m flattered you came for me, but maybe later, Hull.
HULL: Wait!  It looks like Drizzt is with you!  PLEASE let me join you and make my dreams come true!
Alright, Hull.  Wish granted.
HULL: <Hull starts crying tears of joy.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thank you!  This means more to me than you may ever know!  <Continue with Hull’s dialog tree as if the party had let him join.>
Hull, not this time.  Maybe later.
HULL: Kid, I -swear- I’ll find some way to make this worthwhile to you!
It’s a deal, Hull.  I might call in a favor any time.
HULL: <Hull starts crying tears of joy.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thank you!  This means more to me than you may ever know!  <Continue with Hull’s dialog tree as if the party had let him join.>
What part of ‘No’ didn’t you understand?  ‘No’ means ‘No,’ not ‘Try again!’
HULL: <Hull just silently glares at you in disgust!>  <END DIALOG WITH HULL.>
Grovel for me, Hull.  -Maybe- I’ll let you join.
HULL: <Hull falls to the floor in the sleeping human Fighter animation.>  Please, PLEASE let me join you!
Alright, Hull.  Wish granted.  
HULL: <Hull starts crying tears of joy as he stands.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thank you!  This means more to me than you may ever know!  <Continue with Hull’s dialog tree as if the party had let him join.>
Not this time, Hull.  Remember, ‘No’ means ‘No,’ not ‘Try again!’
HULL: <Hull just silently glares at you in disgust!>  <END DIALOG WITH HULL.>
ToB - Outside Watcher’s Keep: Hull Left due to Ultimatum with Dorn’s Quest
FORENOTE: If Hull reaches this point and the party hasn’t already sent a message to Candlekeep for Hull’s quest, that happens off-screen.  Just assume Hull had the message sent while he was here.
Image Credit
HULL: So, kid, have you come to your senses?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Dorn is in the party.>
HULL: <Hull narrows his eyes at Dorn, clearly displeased.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull clears this throat as he waits or a response.>
Why come to Watcher’s Keep, of all places?
HULL: After I heard there were some friendly Priests of Helm here, I was curious.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If the party had not already sent Hull’s message via Sister Garlena nor visited Tethtoril in Candlekeep.>
HULL: Besides, Sister Garlena was nice enough to send Tethtoril the message I wanted sent.
What was the reply?
HULL: Tethtoril thanked me and said he missed us.  He wants to meet with us in Candlekeep if he can.
Hull, can’t we all just get along?
HULL: Gorion would’ve called Dorn a lost cause -long- ago, kid.  I don’t like his style, and I’m just -tired- of catering to his vile ways!
[If the party marked Saemon Havarian’s name on the Scroll of Retribution] Would it help your case to know that I put Saemon Havarian’s name on the Scroll of Retribution instead of ours?
HULL: <Hull smiles.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Saemon was a bastard, kid, but in a -much- smaller league!  He’s never stomped his way through the heavens, leaving a bloody mess where he went!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: No, kid.
[If the party marked Azothet’s or Ur-Gothoz’s name on the Scroll of Retribution] Would it help your case to know that I put Dorn’s patron’s name on the Scroll of Retribution instead of ours?
HULL: <Hull smiles and looks at you in awe!>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, -that’s- the sort of scheme that even Gorion would be proud of!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Y’know what?  I’ve changed my mind.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Dorn is in the party.>
HULL: And Dorn?  You have my respect.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DORN: <Dorn looks at Hull and snorts.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DORN: It is good to know that you can be a reasonable man, -human.-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Let’s get going together, kid, before I change my mind!
<END DIALOG.>  <HULL JOINS THE PARTY.>
[If Dorn is an ex-Blackguard] Would it help your case to know that Dorn gave up his lower planes patron?
HULL: <Hull smiles.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Y’know what?  I’ve changed my mind.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Dorn is in the party.>
HULL: And Dorn?  You have my respect.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DORN: <Dorn looks at Hull and snorts.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DORN: It is good to know that you can be a reasonable man, -human.-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Dorn losing his evil patron is enough reason for me to come with ya again, kid.  Let’s go!
<END DIALOG.>
[If Dorn is in the party but dead] Hull, I had Dorn killed after our argument over Lunia.  What do you say?
HULL: <Hull stares at you blankly.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, that’s... too much.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: It’s like you’re trying to offer me his corpse like you’re a cat trying to bring me a present.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And you clearly close me over Dorn.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: So... let’s just call it even.  We can join up if you want, even if Dorn comes too.
[If Dorn is in the party but petrified] Hull, I had Dorn petrified after our argument over Lunia.  What do you say?
HULL: <Hull stares at you blankly.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, that’s... very artistic of you.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: It’s like you brought me my rival as a trophy!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And you clearly close me over Dorn.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: So... let’s just call it even.  We can join up if you want, even if Dorn comes too.
[If Imoen is in the party] Imoen, what do you say to this situation?
IMOEN: Hull, I didn’t like this either, but I... I just -know- we’re close to finishing our destiny!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: I know we’re living legends, but, well, do you want to see how this story ends?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull looks frustrated and uncomfortable.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I’d rather be remembered as a hero instead of a villain.
[If CHARNAME’s INT & WIS are 15+ and CHARNAME’s CHA is 16+] Hull, Gorion knew my legacy and yet he saved me from certain death at the hands of my mother and sheltered me in Candlekeep.  He risked his life, his reputation, and to some extent, all of Candlekeep to ensure I was kept safe for the time we’re in now.  He even chose to shelter Imoen, knowing she also had a similar heritage.  Gorion chose to risk destroying Candlekeep and every innocent life within it to ensure this Bhaalspawn war wouldn’t destroy the multiverse.  What do you say, Hull?
HULL: Kid, I see your point.  I was thinkin’ too small, here.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And Dorn has a point about protecting ourselves from unwanted godly meddling.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Dorn is in the party.>
DORN: I shall take that as a token of gratitude, -human.-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull closes his eyes and releases a pained sigh.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I’ll stay for now, kid, but know this.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Every time you embrace your vile heritage, my heart hurts for you that much more, like a father who wants to see his kid do right, but who gets tripped up again and again.
<END DIALOG.>  <HULL JOINS THE PARTY.>
Hull, would anything else persuade you to rejoin me?
HULL: No, kid.  I’ve seen enough.
[If Dorn is in the party] Hull, I choose you.  Stay with me.  Dorn, your time is done.
HULL: Kid, you chose well.  Thanks.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DORN: So be it, <CHARNAME>.  It is time that I left to forge my -own- legends!  <END DIALOG.>  <DORN LEAVES THE PARTY PERMANENTLY.>  <HULL JOINS THE PARTY.>
Hull, we’ll just continue to disagree on this point.  It’s time we again part ways.  We might meet again.
HULL: Kid, maybe no one else you’ve traveled with has tried loving you as a father, but I have.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: We’ve been through a lot together, and I’ve forgiven a lot, but if Dorn is still with you like he has been, I... I just can’t agree.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Know that I keep praying for your safety and success.  I want us -all- to have a happy ending to this Bhaalspawn saga!
What will you do next?
HULL: I’ll wait around here for a while and actually -take a break.-  The scenery is pretty serene.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But if we haven’t rejoined forces before my break time is over, however long that is, I might just head back to Candlekeep and write a book about our adventures.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And I’m not concerned about getting back into Candlekeep.  We’re all legendary figures by this point, and Tethtoril can vouch for me if needed.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Drizzt isn’t in the party.>
HULL: Maybe I’ll see what Drizzt is doing and join up with him if I can.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Drizzt is in the party.>
HULL: And Drizzt, if you’re still open to traveling together after this Bhaalspawn war is over, I’d like to travel with you if I can.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: <Drizzt nods.>
Goodbye, Hull.  Do stay safe.
HULL: <A tear falls down Hull’s face.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Imoen is in the party.>
IMOEN: <Imoen starts tearing up.>  Bye, friend.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Wilson is in the party.>
HULL: Look after Wilson for me!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull nods and waves as all of you ways for now.>
<END DIALOG.>
Goodbye, Hull.  Our journey together has forever ended.
HULL: <A tear falls down Hull’s face.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I’m gonna miss ya, kid.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, I know I said this was god business and I’m pretty sure I’m no god like you, but 
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Imoen is in the party.>
HULL: You too, Imoen.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: <Imoen starts tearing up.>  I’ll miss you too, Hull, my friend!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Volo is in the party.>
VOLO: Hull, I am sorry it would end this way for you.  I -will- miss you, my friend!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I’ll miss you too, Volo.  This just felt like the last straw for me before I lost my temper and did something worse.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Remember, Hull, your -magnificent- deeds are recorded in my books about this Bhaalspawn Saga.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thanks.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Baeloth is in the party.>
BAELOTH: I'm afraid I can't let you go. I would be disappointing dozens of desperately depraved devotees of my devious diversions!  (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Baeloth, I think you just mean yourself.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Besides, this isn’t your choice.  It’s mine.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: <Baeloth smirks.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: Hull, I admit I may miss your martial manner.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I’ll miss ya too, man.  Drow.  Whatever.
<If Trinden is in the party.>
TRINDEN: So, it has come to this.  After all your progress, you let a godling persuade you to leave because an -orc blood- discomforted you.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: That’s... a simple way to put it.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: Stake your claim.  Stand your ground.  You -knew- this godling before Dorn became involved!  He has no right to -bully- you!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DORN: I see where this is going.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: Dorn, my fellow orc blood, consider it -mercy- that I have not -destroyed- you where you -stand!-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: Leave -now- and -never- return or we -will- kill you where you stand!  I am inclined to animate your -corpse- as an example!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DORN: Hrmm.  A bold choice. (from here)
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DORN: Then I shall take my leave.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DORN: Be careful what you demand of me. (from here)  <DORN LEAVES THE PARTY AND GAME WORLD.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thanks Trinden, but why insist that I stay?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: I sensed your fear, your defeat, and your regret.  I helped you achieve victory.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: So, this was all a lesson?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: -Exactly.-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: <Trinden narrows his focus and -glares- and Hull!>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I felt that in my soul!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: Victory -always- justifies the means - every blasphemy and every charity.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: That’s extreme!  How can you believe this?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: I have lived it, Hull.  You win, you die, or you become someone’s -puppet.-  There are no other options!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I don’t think I’d put it -that- severely, and I’m not sure I fully agree, but I understand your point and thank you for your help.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: Very well, Hull.  This lesson applies to you as well, -godling.-  Victory -always- justifies the means!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: We are done here.  Let us proceed.  <END DIALOG.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Trinden ISN’T in the party.>
HULL: <Hull looks at you as if he’s about to break down in tears.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But are you -absolutely sure?-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I don’t -want- to leave you like this, kid, but if you say so, I will.
Hull, I didn’t realize this meant so much to you!
HULL: <Hull breathes a sigh of relief.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Of COURSE it does, kid!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But just like Gorion, I gotta let you be you.
Hull, I’ve reconsidered.  We can agree to disagree, but stay here on your break for now.
HULL: <Hull breathes a sigh of relief.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull nods and waves as you part ways for now.>
[If Dorn is in the party and Dorn and Hull haven’t yet reconciled] Will you join us again, despite our differences?
HULL: <Hull looks at Dorn and you, clearly pained.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, I can’t.  This is the sorta manipulation I warned you about.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DORN: <Dorn snorts.>
[If Dorn isn’t in the party OR Dorn is in the party and Dorn and Hull have reconciled] Will you join me again, regardless of what happened?
HULL: <Hull takes a deep breath.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: -Gladly!-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull gives you his strongest bear hug before smiling and letting go.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Dorn is in the party.>
DORN: May we go now?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Time to hit the road with our footgear!
<END DIALOG.>  <HULL JOINS THE PARTY.>
Hull, this is simply where we part ways.  You build your legacy and I’ll build mine.
HULL: <Hull quietly sobs as he waves and walks away.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Imoen is in the party.>
IMOEN: Bye, Hull!  And thank you!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Volo is in the party.>
VOLO: Toodles!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Baeloth is in the party.>
BAELOTH: Ta ta.  Parting is such sour saccharine.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Dorn is in the party.>
DORN: Good riddance!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Sarevok is in the party.>
SAREVOK: I expected more from a once-mighty warrior.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Irenicus is in the party via Longer Road Mod.>
IRENICUS: Pathetic.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull walks toward the map’s edge and leaves the game forever!>
All - Not at one of these above locations
Elsewhere (re)recruitment line:
HULL: So, when do we get the honor of traveling together?
Join me now, Hull.
HULL: Finally!
Not now, Hull, but maybe later.
HULL: No dice?  <Hull groans.>  Don’t lead me on like this, kid!
If Hull is removed from the party, by default, he will head to the Friendly Arm Inn (BG1), the Elfsong Tavern (SoD) and later the Coalition Camp (SoD), the Copper Coronet (SoA), and the Pocket Plane (ToB).
Too Many Party Members
HULL: Kid, I’m not here to guard -that- many people!
Being Removed from Party (Drizzt ISN’T in the Party like from Drizzt Saga or Region of Terror)
HULL: Alright, kid, I get it.  You don’t want Uncle Hull as your babysitter.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull snorts.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: If you change your mind, look for me <LOCATION>. (Friendly Arm Inn/Elfsong Tavern/Copper Coronet/Pocket Plane/around here.)
Being Removed from Party (Drizzt is in the Party like from Drizzt Saga or Region of Terror)
HULL: Alright, kid, I get it.  You don’t want Uncle Hull as your babysitter.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But it was still an honor to travel with you, Drizzt!  I’ll listen for new songs ‘n’ tales of your heroics!  Thank you all!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull bows, respectfully.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: If you change your mind, look for me <LOCATION>. (Friendly Arm Inn/Elfsong Tavern/Copper Coronet/Pocket Plane/around here.)
ToB - Party is in Saradush During Siege: Hull Asked to Leave Party
HULL: If we’re gonna split up, kid, I have an idea.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I’ll lead some civilians to Watcher’s Keep west of here.  Anyone who wants to join me can.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If the party talked with Volo in Saradush.>
HULL: Besides, I felt like I owed Volo a favor after all he taught me about the Sword Coast!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I don’t trust this situation -one bit-, kid.  Saradush has come up against the giants ‘n’ we should at least -try- to get the civilians out!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: All I need is a Bag of Holding so I can safely smuggle some civilians out.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Keldorn is in the party.>
KELDORN: You are a noble-hearted one, Hull.  If you do this, I shall accompany you.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Mazzy is in the party.>
MAZZY: I appreciate your courage, Hull.  Let us proceed together forthwith!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Ajantis is in the party.>
AJANTIS: Hull, you are a paladin in spirit, even if you were never one in upbringing.  I shall go as well.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Anomen is in the party.>
ANOMEN: This seems like something honor would demand.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
ANOMEN: Very well, then.  I shall join you, Hull.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Trinden is in the party.>
TRINDEN: Your boldness reminds me overly much of myself.  I shall not join you.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Uh, are you gonna explain that?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: What you propose is brash.  It abandons the rest of us.  I refuse to return to indulging in such ways.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: If you say so.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Baeloth is in the party.>
BAELOTH: Ta ta!  The so-called ‘real man’ is running around for a change!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Yeah!  Are you coming to and casting Haste so much we leave behind a rainbow trail?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
BAELOTH: I’d prefer to pass my pugilistic partner.  The appearance of agony on these commoners’ countenances is coming, and I shan’t be absent!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I somewhat expected this, but I asked anyway.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Volo is in the party.>
HULL: Volo, are you ready to run like the wind?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: Not this time, my friend.  I would rather stay near the epicenter of the action in Saradush!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
VOLO: I assure you it makes for a more interesting narrative, my friend.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Point taken.
<If Drizzt is in the party.>
DRIZZT: <Drizzt looks and Hull, shakes his head, and sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Uh, Drizzt?  It’s hero time!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: Your intent is noble, Hull, but what you propose is a fool’s errand!  Let us instead cut off the trouble at its source!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I still plan to do it, and I still respect you, Drizzt.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: And I still respect you, Hull.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Sarevok is in the party.>
SAREVOK: What good are these civilians, anyway?  Their blood will be spilled regardless, and their deaths shall only fuel the return of our father, <CHARNAME>!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You were once weak, Sarevok.  Someone raised -you.-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
SAREVOK: Those times of weakness are behind us!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull rolls his eyes.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Imoen is in the party.>
IMOEN: Look how you’ve grown, Hull!  You’ve gone from drunk to hero!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Thanks, Imoen.  You in?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: Not this time, Hull.  Even with magic, this giant army’s a bigger threat.  Someone’s gotta stem the tide, y’know?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull smiles and sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull turns to face <CHARNAME>.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: So, kid, whaddya ya say?
What about the walls, Hull?
HULL: The walls are holding.  For now.  If they stop, there’ll be no more city!
Why Watcher’s Keep?
HULL: It’s a nearby civilization, kid.  It’s a Helmite fortress.  They can heal the sick ‘n’ raise the dead.  They should be able to send messages, too!
How do you know this?
HULL: “These walls contain the world’s knowledge.” -The Candlekeep sages.
Don’t we have better things to do now, like stop the assault?
HULL: You’re the child of a murder god, kid.  You can handle the killin’.
Wasn’t Melissan doing something about the civilians?
HULL: Maybe, but is she really gonna lead some civilians through an army when she can’t teleport ‘em?
Are you just looking for an excuse to leave the group?
HULL: Not at all, kid!  But if we’re splittin’ up, I may as well do some good while yer away.
You?  Against the giants?  With -civilians?-  How?
HULL: Potions of invisibility plus oils of speed.  The good kind, not the rotten rainbow-colored kind.  Shove some civilians into a Bag of Holding if need be.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: We’re gonna be settin’ some land speed records here, kid!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: So, can I depend on your contribution of, say, 3 potions of invisibility, 3 oils of speed, and a Bag of Holding?
What happens to the stuff in the Bag of Holding?
HULL: It’ll be safe with me.
Only 3 of each potion type?
HULL: I’ll take whatever ya got.  Shove ‘em in my pockets!  Thanks!
How important is it that you get this Bag of Holding?
HULL: Crucial, kid.  I’m not risking any civilian lives without it.
Hull, this may just be the stupidest thing you’ve ever done.  Or bravest.  Or oddest.  You choose which.
HULL: I choose all of these!  Thanks.
Not yet, Hull.
HULL: Lemme know when yer ready.  <RETURN TO PREVIOUS MENU.>
[If the party has a Bag of Holding OR any of the Unique Containers from Tweaks Anthology OR Dragomir’s Respite] I’m gonna miss that magical container.  What if I never see it again?
HULL: You’ll get it back, good as it was before!  I’ll even ask the Helmites if they’ll clean it!
<Pick one.>
Don’t you dare!
HULL: <Hull snickers.>
Go right ahead.  If you’re serious.
HULL: <Hull smiles and winks.>
Whatever happens, I trust you.
HULL: Good!
[If Hull has a Bag of Holding OR any of the Unique Containers from Tweaks Anthology OR Dragomir’s Respite in his inventory] Hull, go ahead with your plan.  We’ll meet as soon as possible at Watcher’s Keep.  I still want that magical container back!
HULL: <Hull sighs and smiles.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Let’s make Gorion proud!
<If Imoen is in the party.>
IMOEN: See you soon, Hull.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You too, girl.  You too.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Alright, everyone!  If you want the -mighty Hull- to lead you out of this city, follow me!
<Hull leaves the party.  Ajantis, Anomen, and Keldorn will leave the party with Hull if they’re in the party.>  <END DIALOG.>
[If Hull LACKS a Bag of Holding OR any of the Unique Containers from Tweaks Anthology OR Dragomir’s Respite in his inventory] We’ll split up, but wait around here.  I’ll let you know when I’m ready.
HULL: Sure thing, kid, but make it quick!  <Hull leaves the party.>  <END DIALOG.>
I’d rather you just stay with me for now.  I may need your crazy ideas more than you know!
HULL: <Hull shrugs.>  <END DIALOG BOX.>
ToB - Party is in Saradush During Siege: Hull Asked to Leave Party (Repeat Dialog)
HULL: So, kid, are you ready for me to rescue some civilians with that Bag of Holding?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Let’s make sure I have one on me before I go into hero mode!
Not yet, Hull.  Stay with me for now.
HULL: Sure thing, kid!  <END DIALOG.>
Stay here for a bit, but don’t leave town just yet.
HULL: I’ll do what I can, kid.  <END DIALOG.>
[If Hull has a Bag of Holding OR any of the Unique Containers from Tweaks Anthology OR Dragomir’s Respite as well as at least 3 Oils of Speed and 3 Potions of Invisibility] Hull, it’s hero time.
HULL: See -you- at Watcher’s Keep!  <Hull leaves the party.  Ajantis, Anomen, Keldorn, and Mazzy will leave the party with Hull if they’re in the party.>  <END DIALOG.>
ALL: TRINDEN’S RECRUITMENT & REMOVAL FROM PARTY
Trinden’s recruitment process is intentionally simple:  Arrive in your Pocket Plane in ToB and talk to Trinden.  (If for some reason this doesn’t trigger, instead talk to the Fate Spirit.  Choose Trinden and there you go!)
If Trinden is removed from the party, then he can wait where he was dismissed or be returned to the Pocket Plane.  (In character, he can use a very accurate plane shift.)
Initial Meeting
TRINDEN: Welcome.  You have finally arrived.  I was wondering if I had been led to the wrong planar coordinates.
Are you friend or foe?
TRINDEN: I am as friendly as you make me.
TRINDEN: if you treat me with hostility, I shall leave and perhaps be your rival to ages to come.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: If you welcome me, we shall travel and learn together what it means to be gods.
Explain this traveling together part.
TRINDEN: We act as allies and traveling companions until our time together is done.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: But I know that -you- already knew that.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: <Trinden grins.>
What is your purpose here?
TRINDEN: I am here to meet with you, godling, and learn from experience what it means to ascend.
What if I’m not royalty?
TRINDEN: <Trinden grins.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: That is no matter.  I speak not of royalty, but -divinity.-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: There is a divine -essence- within you.  I can sense it!  I am here to help you claim your -birthright!-
TRINDEN: I too have a similar spark of divinity within me, though I am not of your blood heritage.
What if I’m not interested in becoming a god?
TRINDEN: Perhaps all this is overwhelming to you know, but your heritage -entitles- you to a rare right - ascension to a deity!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: This power is a boon you would be -foolish- to reject!
How do you know this about me?
TRINDEN: I was sent into the multiverse by a being unknown to you who gave me these planar coordinates.  I am not allowed to reveal any more about this being’s identity as per our agreement.
Who are you?
TRINDEN: I am Trinden Felsad, Head of House Felsad, a trade house from another plane specializing in divine magic and its use in items such as potions, wands, and scrolls.
Does that make you a craftsman?
TRINDEN: -Absolutely.-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: However, in this case, I sense there is another being around here who can craft items at least as well as I.  Let him do it.  Time is not waiting.
How long have you been waiting here?
TRINDEN: Long enough for me to become -impatient.-
Are you -really- a dragon?
TRINDEN: Technically, I am - in addition to being a full-blooded orc.  Some would call me a half-dragon, and I would not dispute them.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: I underwent various versions of a draconic transformation ritual until the ritual was perfected.
You underwent a ritual that wasn’t fully ready yet?
TRINDEN: No.  The ritual was ready as determined by my house’s test subjects; however, the initial version had areas for refinement.  These areas were refined until no further refinement remained.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: I volunteered early for the morale of my house, and to lead by example.  Magic, properly studied and used, is not to be feared, but enjoyed.
Why a dragon?
TRINDEN: Its power, its majesty, its magical ability, and its money all combine into a symbol of -superiority.-
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: -This- is why our house chose a dragon as its symbol.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: Beyond this, there is the -tremendous- utility of being intimidating by my mere presence, wings, a breath weapon, and certain other features I assume you can infer if we ally.
What are your areas of expertise?
TRINDEN: I am an -excellent- warrior and Cleric, adept at social graces, knowledgeable about the planes, an accomplished author, and an innovative magesmith.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: As some would say, I am a man of many talents.
If we work together, what do you expect from me?
TRINDEN: I expect that starting -now- we work together to fulfill your destiny as a deity.  In doing this, I learn first-hand factors to consider for my own ascension.
TRINDEN: I am amidst in-person field research on what factors most contribute to a deity’s long-term success, such as their portfolio, their outlook on life, and how tolerant of disobedience they should be.
Die, green dragon invader!
TRINDEN: No.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: <Trinden casts Plane Shift and warps away.  Plane Shift uses the Teleport spell animation.>
Can I get back to you another day on this?
TRINDEN: No.  Decide for yourself -now- if you intend to accept my assistance in fulfilling -your- ascension and -your- destiny for my research.
You ask me to make quite the decision, Trinden.
TRINDEN: Decisive action is -key- to victory!
I am ready to make my decision.
TRINDEN: Speak.
Let us team up and fulfill my destiny, Trinden!
TRINDEN: Good, my godling.  You have come to your senses.  The time of -your- ascension is at hand!  <Trinden joins the party.>
I’m not confident that our purposes align or that we would get along, Trinden.
TRINDEN: How... unfortunate.  I do recommend you reconsider.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: What is your main objection to our cooperation?
<Pick one.>
If I’m offered the choice, I simply don’t want to ascend.  The idea of being a deity doesn’t appeal to me and may even be repulsive to me!
TRINDEN: I understand this -drastic- change can be overwhelming for you.  However, will you live the rest of your life in wonder and regret for not even -trying- to ascend?
You plan is worth a chance.
TRINDEN: Good.  I am glad you have come to your senses.  Let us proceed to our next objective at -once!-
I’m still not convinced.
TRINDEN: Then your assessment was correct.  Our aims are irreconcilable.  I wish you well on the journey ahead.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: <Trinden bows.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: <Trinden uses Plane Shift and exits the game world.  Plane Shift uses the Teleport spell animation.>
If I’m offered the choice, I simply don’t want to ascend.  The idea of being a deity doesn’t appeal to me and may even be repulsive to me!
I don’t know you.  I’m not sure if I should trust you.
TRINDEN: Considering I have waited here patiently for you and willingly offered you my aid, is that enough to prove I am trustworthy?
You’re right.  It is.
TRINDEN: Good.  I am glad you have come to your senses.  Let us proceed to our next objective at -once!-
I’m still not convinced.
TRINDEN: So be it.  Let us depart in peace.  Perhaps we shall communicate later.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: <Trinden bows.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: <Trinden uses Plane Shift and exits the game world.  Plane Shift uses the Teleport spell animation.>
I have devoted myself to a certain set of companions and intend to journey with them until the end.
TRINDEN: Loyalty is a virtue.  Loyalty with wisdom even more so.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: However, would allowing me to travel with you as one of your inner circle be agreeable to you?
Very well.  It’s a deal.
TRINDEN: Good.  I am glad you have come to your senses.  Let us proceed to our next objective at -once!-
I’m still not convinced.
TRINDEN: So be it.  Let us depart in peace.  Perhaps we shall communicate later.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: <Trinden bows.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: <Trinden uses Plane Shift and exits the game world.  Plane Shift uses the Teleport spell animation.>
I just don’t like dragons.
TRINDEN: I understand you may have had trauma with dragonblooded creatures, and that you may be concerned for my safety that hunters would seek my life for the valuable materials they could extract from my corpse.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: However, if we act as -allies-, the situation changes in our favor.
When you put it that way, let’s work together, Trinden.
TRINDEN: Good.  I am glad you have come to your senses.  Let us proceed to our next objective at -once!-
I’m still not convinced.
TRINDEN: So be it.  Let us depart in peace.  Perhaps we shall communicate later.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: <Trinden bows.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: <Trinden uses Plane Shift and exits the game world.  Plane Shift uses the Teleport spell animation.>
I prefer to travel alone or in a small group.
TRINDEN: I understand the desire for mobility and the logistics of operating a small company versus a large organization.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: However, I am not here to be a liability to you, but an asset.  I can fill my roles as warrior and Cleric -quite- well.
I’m convinced.  Welcome aboard!
TRINDEN: Good.  I am glad you have come to your senses.  Let us proceed to our next objective at -once!-
I’m still not convinced.
TRINDEN: So be it.  Let us depart in peace.  Perhaps we shall communicate later.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: <Trinden bows.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: <Trinden uses Plane Shift and exits the game world.  Plane Shift uses the Teleport spell animation.>
I’m not convinced I need your services on my team.
TRINDEN: I am an -excellent- warrior and Cleric with an affinity for intimidation and longswords.  Blood of dragons flows through me and I possess many abilities of a true dragon.  I am a planar scholar and familiar with a variety of topics.  I am fluent in social graces.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: Is this amply persuasive evidence?
You’re right.  It is.
TRINDEN: Good.  I am glad you have come to your senses.  Let us proceed to our next objective at -once!-
I’m concerned you would overshadow me!
TRINDEN: Why does that matter?  I am not here forever, merely to assist you in fulfilling your destiny.
I’m still not convinced.
TRINDEN: So be it.  Let us depart in peace.  Perhaps we shall communicate later.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: <Trinden bows.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
TRINDEN: <Trinden uses Plane Shift and exits the game world.  Plane Shift uses the Teleport spell animation.>
ALL: VOLO’S RECRUITMENT & REMOVAL FROM PARTY
Volo is a somewhat famous Faerunian character by the start of BGI.  Normally, he relaxes in Nashkel while telling tales and drinking ales.  He’s interested in being at the center of exciting action!
In BGI, Volo starts in his usual spot in Nashkel’s Belching Dragon Tavern.  He can be persuaded to join the party if they’ve gained some renown by clearing the Nashkel Mines OR visiting the lowest floor in Durlag’s Tower OR by paying him a significant amount of cash (about 1000G) before asking him to join.
Volo doesn’t stay for SoD after the party is scheduled to leave the city of Baldur’s Gate.  In character, he received an urgent message from Elminster and must respond to it immediately.  If he’s in the party when they kill Sarevok, he tells the party he has finally received this important message and must leave soon!  He can be persuaded to stay until the party leaves Baldur’s Gate City near the start of SoD, but that’s as long as he’ll stay in BGI.
If removed from the party, Volo can wait where he was dismissed or be sent to the Belching Dragon Tavern in Nashkel.
Volo isn’t recruitable in SoD.
Volo also isn’t recruitable in SoA - at least initially.  If plans change, someone (probably me) will make the appropriate changes and notes.
Volo is in his default position in the Tankard Tree in Saradush.  
If removed from the party, Volo can wait where he was dismissed or be sent to the Pocket Plane.
ALL: HULL AND DRIZZT ARE IN THE PARTY SIMULTANEOUSLY
        Having Drizzt join the party is quite possible with mods.  This is normally done via the mods Drizzt Saga (BG1) and Region of Terror (BG2).  These mods each treat Drizzt as a separate unit/character.
The Seducer Kit and perhaps other means also allow Drizzt to join the party.
Drizzt and Hull are in the Party Simultaneously - First Time
HULL: <Hull turns toward Drizzt and bows respectfully and eagerly before him.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: It is an HONOR and a PLEASURE to fight with you, sir!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: <Drizzt nods.>  <END DIALOG.>
Drizzt Leaves the Party when Hull in the Party
HULL: <Hull turns toward Drizzt and bows respectfully and eagerly before him.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Drizzt, sir, I’ll miss you!  Good luck on doing good out there!
<END DIALOG.>
Hull Leaves the Party when Drizzt in the Party
HULL: <Hull turns toward Drizzt and bows respectfully and eagerly before him.  Hull turns toward <CHARNAME> and waves, clearly heavy-hearted.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, I don’t like this at all, but I know Gorion would -absolutely approve- of you working with Drizzt for the betterment of us topsiders!  Call me when you need me, either of you!  <END DIALOG.>
Drizzt and Hull are in the Party Simultaneously - Subsequent Times
HULL: <Hull turns toward Drizzt and bows respectfully and eagerly before him.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Drizzt, sir, welcome back!  It is STILL an HONOR and a PLEASURE to work with you!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: <Drizzt nods.>  <END DIALOG.>
ALL: HULL’S REMARKS ABOUT HIS DUAL CLASSING OR MULTICLASSING OR CLASS
These dialogs only trigger once - the first time Hull is in the party with <CHARNAME> - after Hull has dual classed (or multiclassed or otherwise had his class changed if using other mods) into these classes or class combinations.  For any class or class combo not on this list (like Shaman), just assume there is no special dialog.
Fighter/Bard (any kit) OR Bard (any kit)
HULL: Alright, kid.  If you didn’t figure it out already, I’ve made up my mind and become a Bard!
That sounds perfectly logical to me!
HULL: Yeah!  Candlekeep had scribes, musicians, sages, ‘n’ more!  It needed more comedians, though.
Where are your silly-looking pants and mandolin?
HULL: In the next shop we visit!
Why become a Bard?
HULL: Kid, we all need better morale.  Besides, I was eager to learn a new skill set!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And maybe I always -was- a Bard!  I can entertain like one!
How does this affect your ability to be my bodyguard?
HULL: What part of ‘I can do a bit of everything’ don’t you understand?
Thanks, Hull.  We may talk more about this later.
HULL: Onward!  <END DIALOG.>
Fighter/Cleric (any kit) OR Cleric (any kit)
HULL: Alright, kid.  I’ve been thinkin’ about it and prayin’ on it, and I took Sirus’s advice and became a Cleric.
Who’s Sirus?
HULL: Sirus is one of the priests in Candlekeep.
Who do you worship?
HULL: Oghma was the favored deity of Candlekeep.  I’ll let you figure it out.
Why become a Cleric?
HULL: Kid, I figured the world was painful enough already.  Here’s a chance to heal some people, including you.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Besides, now I can be one of those Cleric Knights I’ve read about!
How does this affect your ability to be my bodyguard?
HULL: Kid, I didn’t give up on helpin’ ya.  I’m just doin’ it in a different way now.  I’m expanding my skill set just like I intended.
Thanks, Hull.  We may talk more about this later.
HULL: Onward!  <END DIALOG.>
Fighter/Druid (any kit) OR Druid (any kit)
HULL: Alright, kid.  I’ve been thinkin’ about it and prayin’ on it, and I decided to become a Druid.
That seems -so- unlike you, Hull!  In Candlekeep, you were wearing metal armor, shields, and weapons pretty much all the time!
HULL: It’s different, kid, I know.  But I heard Gorion talkin’ about Jaheira the Druid and how she seemed happy.  I read some books on Druids in Candlekeep and thought it would be worth a try.
Who or what do you worship?
HULL: Druids normally worship nature or a buncha nature deities called the First Circle.  I’ll let you figure out the details, kid.
Why become a Druid?
HULL: Kid, I wanted to branch out into something new.  Here’s a chance to heal some people, including you.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Besides, when we were in Candlekeep, I kept saying I wanted to get out more!
How does this affect your ability to be my bodyguard?
HULL: Kid, I didn’t give up on helpin’ ya.  I’m just doin’ it in a different way now.  I’m expanding my skill set just like I intended.
Thanks, Hull.  We may talk more about this later.
HULL: Onward!  <END DIALOG.>
Fighter/Mage (any kit) OR Mage (any kit)
HULL: Alright, kid.  I’ve been thinkin’ about it and meditatin’ on it, and I decided to become a Wizard.
You - a Wizard?  Why?
HULL: I’m smarter than I look, kid!  Gorion was a Wizard and since casters ruled Candlekeep and magic is -so very useful-, I decided to be brawny -and- brainy!
What specialty school do you have, if any?
HULL: Kid, I’m still figurin’ all this out.  For now, I’m hungry for -all- arcane scrolls and if I don’t want something, you’ll know.
How does this affect your ability to be my bodyguard?
HULL: Kid, I didn’t give up on helpin’ ya.  I’m just doin’ it in a different way now.  I’m expanding my skill set just like I intended.
Thanks, Hull.  We may talk more about this later.
HULL: Onward!  <END DIALOG.>
Fighter/Paladin (any kit but Blackguard) OR Paladin (any kit but Blackguard)
HULL: Alright, kid.  I’ve been thinkin’ about it and prayin’ on it, and I took Sirus’s advice and became a Paladin.
Who’s Sirus?
HULL: Sirus is one of the priests in Candlekeep.
Who do you worship?
HULL: Oghma was the favored deity of Candlekeep.  I’ll let you figure it out.
What’s a Paladin?
HULL: I heal, I smite, through day and night.  I change what’s wrong to right!
Why become a Paladin?
HULL: Paladins may have a difficult job keepin’ their job, but being one is a matter of honor ‘n’ respect.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I think -I- respect me more as a Paladin!
HULL: Being a Paladin is a badge of honor.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Paladins are targets for evil, but I was a big enough target for them already!
How does this affect your ability to be my bodyguard?
HULL: Kid, Gorion would probably -like- it if you had a Paladin for a bodyguard!  It shows you’re in the right company!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But compared to just being a normal Fighter, it’s probably pretty similar.
Thanks, Hull.  We may talk more about this later.
HULL: Onward!  <END DIALOG.>
Fighter/Sorcerer (any kit) OR Sorcerer (any kit)
HULL: Alright, kid.  I’ve had some arcane power come alive in me, kid.  I’ve seen it in dreams and it just... wants to come out.
You - a Sorcerer?  Why?
HULL: Kid, I never asked for this.
What kind of Sorcerer are you?
HULL: I just know that I -am- one.  I’m the ‘me’ kind!
How does this arcane power want to come out of you?
HULL: Kid, it’s like I -know- how magic works and I -want- to use it, kinda like when I’m hungry and I -want- to eat and I just -know- it.
Should I be concerned about your ability to control your power?
HULL: Not at all, kid.  It’s like an itch I can scratch or ignore.
How does this affect your ability to be my bodyguard?
HULL: Kid, I didn’t give up on helpin’ ya.  I’m just doin’ it in a different way now.  I’m expanding my skill set just like I intended.
Thanks, Hull.  We may talk more about this later.
HULL: Onward!  <END DIALOG.>
Fighter/Thief (any kit) OR Thief (any kit)
HULL: Alright, kid.  I’ve been thinkin’ and I figured I should focus more on roguish ways like Imoen.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Imoen is in the party.>
IMOEN: Told ya I was right, Hull!  Every time you caught me sneaking around Candlekeep, I -told- ya you’d agree with me one day!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Yeah, yeah.  Take yer victory lap later.
Why go rogue, Hull?  What about all that metal you liked to wear as a Candlekeep guard?
HULL: Kid, we aren’t just livin’ in Candlekeep anymore.  If Gorion adopted the thieving Imoen, then this way is worth considerin’, kid.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Imoen is in the party.>
IMOEN: <Imoen half-smiles, half-pouts.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Fine, Imoen.  You win.  We never wagered anything.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
IMOEN: <Imoen dramatically stomps her foot and snaps her fingers in disappointment.>  Drat!
Any other reasons?
HULL: Kid, I know what vital areas to strike for extra damage.  I’ve been hit in all of ‘em!
What kind of Rogue are you?
HULL: I just know that I -am- one.  I’m the ‘me’ kind!
Does this mean you plan to go rob the pants off everyone we find?
HULL: Kid, I’m smarter than that.  I only plan to steal others’ pants as a last resort.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Now, stealing their weapons, potions, and scrolls is another story!
How does this affect your ability to be my bodyguard?
HULL: Kid, I didn’t give up on helpin’ ya.  I’m just doin’ it in a different way now.  I’m expanding my skill set just like I intended.
Thanks, Hull.  We may talk more about this later.
HULL: Onward!  <END DIALOG.>
ALL: HULL’S PLAYER-INITIATED DIALOG (PID)
[If the party has started but hasn’t yet finished the quest Hull on Tap (Candlekeep Region)] What was this about Hull on Tap around Candlekeep?
HULL: I’d like to try some local flavors of booze.  I heard there’s some good drinkin’ in the Candlekeep region.
I thought you were gonna sober up after leaving Candlekeep.
HULL: I didn’t say I was gonna get -drunk- off this stuff, kid.  I just wanted to try the stuff.  Besides, fighting off bandits and assassins and bears is thirsty work!
HULL: Curiosity, kid.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And if we ever went back to Candlekeep, I could help Winthrop with the recipe!  Or just tell him where to import his booze.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Consider it our own research project to write up for Candlekeep.  It’d be a one-of-a-kind book, kid!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I call it, “Hull On Tap: Savoring the Flavors of Booze in the Candlekeep Region.”
Somehow I’m not convinced Ulraunt would want -that- sort of rare book in his library.
HULL: His loss, kid!  -Plenty- of people wanna know where to get the best drinks!
Good drinks?  Where?
HULL: There’s the Friendly Arm Inn, of course.  Beregost has a few taverns.  Nashkel has one, and the carnival’s in town so there should be a beer tent.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I’d like to try some Ulgoth’s Beer in Ulgoth’s Beard.
What about Baldur’s Gate?
HULL: We can make that a separate tour once we get in.
What about more distant regions like Icewind Dale or Amn?
HULL: Eh, maybe, kid.  Considering how much the transportation would cost and the whole political instability with Amn, I dunno how well that would work.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Icewind Dale is also a -really- long way from Candlekeep, kid, like hundreds of miles!  Neverwinter and Waterdeep are closer, but they’re -still- tens or hundreds of miles each way!  On foot, that’s a risky trade route.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Sure, some Wizards in Candlekeep could just Teleport there and back, but how many Teleport spells and mishaps are you gonna go through just to transport booze?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: If you’re someone like Tethtoril or Ulraunt, probably none.
What about smaller settlements in the region around Candlekeep?
HULL: Last I checked, they weren’t common.  We live in dangerous times, kid, and I wouldn’t wanna try dealing with a village so small I couldn’t even find it on a map.
Why did you want to join me so much?
HULL: Kid, it’s a dangerous world outside the gilded cage of Candlekeep and I’m more trustworthy than some stranger!
Why do you like calling me ‘kid?’
HULL: Gorion took you in as his foster child.  Plenty of us in Candlekeep watched you grow up or at least get used to life there.  Besides, it’s short and others probably won’t call you ‘kid.’
What do you think Gorion wanted me to do with my life?
HULL: Well, kid, he probably wanted you to live it.  You’re an adult now and figuring out this world and how you should act after a buncha assassins chased you odda Candlekeep is a big thing, kid.
Got any more specific advice?
HULL: Your life is your choice, kid.  That’s the burden and joy of being an adult.
Hull, how much can you drink?
HULL: <Hull shrugs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: That depends on how thirsty I am or how drunk I wanna be!
What’s your history, Hull?
HULL: When I was very young, my father was being hunted by some lawmen for something.  He stole an important book and got our family into Candlekeep.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I heard later he tried to learn wizardry, but the sages rejected him for his troubled past and he died after he messed around with some mage in Candlekeep.  Maybe he was poisoned or cursed.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: The guard adopted me like Gorion adopted you.
If you could, would you want to revive your parents?
HULL: <Hull looks at you like he’s just started to think deeply about this.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I dunno, kid.  I’m curious, yeah, but I don’t wanna disturb their afterlives.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: If Big Daddy Hull -was- a criminal, I wouldn’t wanna hafta arrest him!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Then there’s the matter of -how- we could bring ‘em back.  Maybe we could wish ‘em back.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But Imoen ‘n’ you are my family now!  I’m your Uncle Hull!
Any other reasons you’re hesitant to revive your family if you could?
HULL: Yeah!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: We’re on the road a -lot-, kid.  We’ve been busy ever since Gorion became a bloody mess outside Candlekeep.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: We wouldn’t get to visit ‘em much, and it ain’t like we can just take ‘em with us!  They’re civilians, -not- warriors!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: My father was prolly a thief, but not -that- kinda thief!
Are you resentful about what your father did?
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I don’t -wanna- be.  I also don’t wanna focus on it.  
Hull, are you really about to give up on returning your family to life?
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, if we can’t bring ‘em here, I figure I or we would go to them one day.
How did you become a guard in Candlekeep?
HULL: I shoulda said it, but the guard adopted me from an early age.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I was young, strong, and bored, and I thought it would be fun to yell at people and push ‘em around wearing a lawman’s badge.  I figured there wouldn’t be much trouble in Candlekeep, and I was right, but that also meant I was -super bored!-
What about the rest of your family?
HULL: I don’t have any siblings I know about, kid.  My mother died soon after I came out.  I probably have some uncles, aunts, and cousins somewhere that I never met and wouldn’t recognize.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But now that I think about it, I -do- remember one relative - my Aunt Lily.  She apparently was some sort of berserker who owned a dire bear mount named Thumper.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Together, they charged through hills and forests, conquering all before them!  It was pretty easy for them to get their way when a 12 foot tall bear made sure they could pretty much go where they pleased.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Yes, even in cities.  Mounted on a bear.
Wait!  What?
HULL: That’s what I remember my father tell me.  I dunno how true it is.
What happened to Lily and Thumper?
HULL: <Hull shrugs.>
Let’s discuss something else.
HULL: Sure, kid!
<Return to previous dialog menu.>
As a child, what did you want to be when you grew up?
HULL: I wanted to be a guard for Candlekeep for the first year or two.  Then things got boring.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: As a kid, I wondered what it was like to be a big, powerful caster just like all the important people ‘round Candlekeep.
What do you think now?
HULL: Being a caster’s still better than -not- being one.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Magic’s all around us, kid, like water in the seas.  Casters just push ‘n’ pull on magic to shape it for ‘em.
How poetic, Hull!
HULL: Thanks!  I didn’t try!
Could you -really- win a fight against Drizzt Do’Urden with your arms tied around your back?
HULL: <Hull smiles and chuckles.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You remembered the guards boasting from Candlekeep, eh?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I could... if Drizzt can’t fight back.  Most things could.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Drizzt is in the party.>
HULL: No offense, Drizzt.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
DRIZZT: None taken, Hull.  My name has been used as a measure of strength, wit, and agility for years now.  Anyone who boasts they can beat me so disadvantaged is surely a fool.
Got any interesting Candlekeep guard stories?
HULL: Kid, you know about most of ‘em.  Here’s one I didn’t think I told ya.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Around the time I started on the guard, there was an old guard named Jake that the other guards called “Were-Jake.”  He had long hair, a thick beard, a big head, and kinda looked like a werewolf.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: He liked howling for the guards ‘n’ putin’ on a show.  That just showed how -bored- ‘n’ -easily amused we were.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And, no, kid.  He was human.  Not really a were.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: He left the guard a few years after I started.  He said he had family he wanted to see elsewhere in the world.  Dunno what happened to him.  He howled like a wolf the night he left.
What does your name mean, Hull?
HULL: ‘Hull’ was a nickname short for ‘hollow skull,’ but I owned up to it and made it seem strong like a mighty ship that sails the sea!  I’ve heard ‘Hull’ so much I sometimes forget what my real name is.
Why were you called ‘hollow skull?’
HULL: I wasn’t a caster in a castle fulla casters!  Strong people get called dumb for not being casters, and sometimes that’s accurate.  Not for me, though.
How smart are you?
HULL: I was smart enough to come help you after Gorion died when just about no one else would!
What are your favorite things to read?
HULL: One of the first books I read was Volo’s Guide to the Sword Coast.  I wasn’t -trying- to find it, but it was mixed in with a buncha other stuff and I started reading it out of curiosity.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Nowadays, I’d normally read something about making money or something funny.  Working in Candlekeep made me numb a lotta the time, kid, and I funny stuff fixed that.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I also enjoyed reading about the Drow hero Drizzt and the sage Elminster, but I don’t know how much of that stuff is true.  It’s -so easy- to write something and make it seem true that I got tired of reading that stuff and just kinda shrugged at it.
Making money?  What?
HULL: Well, from what I can tell, the richest people are businessmen or adventurers.  They don’t just sit around and expect money to come to them.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: They go out in the world and do stuff.  Change it.  Take risks.  Offend people.  That sorta thing.
What do you not like from books or reading?
HULL: Kid, I don’t like heavy symbols and subtext.  Symbols can be so loud about being -there- and -important- that I can’t focus on anything else.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Tell a good story or make a good point at the surface level so I can move onto the next thing in my day.
Any examples?
HULL: Read anything that’s trying to sound deep or important and you’ll probably find more symbols than story.
What do you think about judging a book by its cover?
HULL: Kid, please, -please- judge a book by its cover.  A cover tells ya what to expect inside.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Is it a book on gardening?  History?  Military tactics?  Something else?  Whatever’s most important inside, the cover should tell ya.
What about that advice applying to people?
HULL: It works on people, too.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: If a guy dresses like a beggar and acts like a beggar, he’s probably a beggar.  He’ll get treated like a beggar.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: If you know more about the guy than the cover, you’ll treat him like you know him if you want.
<Pick one.>
But that wasn’t what I was taught!
HULL: You were taught wrong, kid.  I was too.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Actually -being- around a lotta people made me realize that a lotta adults just lie to their kids to try to make ‘em obey.  Sometimes it works.
Good point.
HULL: Agreed, kid.  What next?
What are your favorite sorts of drinks?
HULL: I know we’ve had a -lot- of Winthrop’s stuff in Candlekeep, but I’ve liked some fruity drinks mixed with honey like apple cider.
And here I thought you were just trying to be as drunk as possible as long as possible!
HULL: Not at all, kid!  Staring at walls for hours at a time day after day made me wanna drink myself numb sometimes.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: As for being drunk, well, that has its place, like for special occasions or when money’s on the line.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I’d rather live an interesting life sober with the occasional drink than be stupid drunk because I was tired of life being -boring!-
How often did Winthrop cut you off because he thought you had too much to drink?
HULL: <Hull starts counting on his fingers.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Seventeen times, kid.  Not like he needed the money.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I think he did it ‘kuz he was busy trying to get the noble guests drunk.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Imagine if he did that for people who asked for water!
What are your favorite foods?
HULL: I like meat and very filling foods.  In Candlekeep, Winthrop served a lotta the typical stuff like beef, chicken, pork, fish, and a bit of lamb.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Winthrop never had anything exotic on the menu, like horse, whale, reindeer, or unicorn.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I didn’t get as strong as I am by eating salad!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I’ve been curious if loving meat so much made me like a vampire, but I’m just gonna say no.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Besides, I like potatoes too much!
How did you get through your shifts on guard duty?
HULL: Just like the other guys.  When we weren’t haulin’ stuff for some noble like a pack mule or tellin’ ‘em to follow us, we found something fun to do.  We talked.  We drank.  We played darts or cards.  I liked reading.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Sometimes we gambled or played other games.
What other games?
HULL: What color is your spit?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull loudly clears his throat and spits on the ground.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: -That- color!
Ever arrest anyone in Candlekeep?
HULL: That depends on whatcha mean by ‘arrest.’  I didn’t haul anyone off to jail.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I told some arrogant rich folk they were gonna get in trouble if they kept pestering the guards over every little thing.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Lift this.  No, not that way.  Go tell the people in the next room to keep quiet.  Stop reading the books we used to pay our entry fee.  There’s SAND on my BOOTS!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But I -did- inflict capital punishment on a pig that kept getting into Winthrop’s larder.  He was delicious with butter.
Winthrop or the pig?
HULL: Yes.
Hull, didn’t you tell me you were left-handed?  Why fight right-handed?
HULL: That’s how all the guards were trained, kid.  There was another guy - Romeo, I think his name was - who learned things this way.
Does that make you ambidextrous?
HULL: <Hull shrugs.>
Romeo?  That sounds like a storybook name!
HULL: Some storybook characters are named after real people, kid.
What happened to this ‘Romeo?’
HULL: He was before my time, kid.  Candlekeep doesn’t get a lotta left-handed guards.
What are some things you’ve wondered about?
HULL: I got a list, kid!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You should know me well enough by now.  Go ahead and ask the stuff I’ve asked.
What have you wondered about Undead?
HULL: Are dumb Undead like zombies and skeletons aware they’re Undead?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Smart Undead like Vampires or Liches should know they’re Undead.
<Pick one.>
I’m unsure.
HULL: <Hull shrugs.>
I don’t think so.  I’m pretty sure the magic that animates these menial Undead prevents them from knowing what happened after the point of death.
HULL: <Hull nods.>
I’d like to think so.  Maybe there’s something about the animation process that lets them know they’re Undead but doesn’t let them easily communicate it.
HULL: <Hull shrugs.>
What have you wondered about facial hair?
HULL: Why is it that some guys can just grow lotsa facial hair without trying while others can barely get stubble?
<Pick one.>
I’m unsure.
HULL: <Hull shrugs.>
If we assume magic isn’t involved, some races and members of these races can easily grow beards.  It’s like hair color or eye color.
HULL: <Hull nods.>
I’d like to think that some creatures are just divinely chosen to have whatever facial hair they do.
HULL: <Hull shrugs.>
What have you wondered about pantheons?
HULL: Why are there so many gods?  Why not just stop at, like, one?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: So many troubles would’ve been avoided if we didn’t have all these religions and factions!
<Pick one.>
I’m unsure.
HULL: <Hull shrugs.>
Maybe they just came into being without being created by anyone or anything else.
HULL: Eh.  That just doesn’t seem right.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Even magic has a source like an item or a caster.
Maybe there were fewer gods once, but others were promoted to godhood for their notable lives.
HULL: Plausible, kid.
Maybe there were fewer gods, but they didn’t want to handle all the work so they made more.
HULL: I don’t like that answer, kid, even if it seems reasonable.  It makes the gods seem lazy or inept.
What have you wondered about godly hierarchies?
HULL: Why would anyone want to worship a weak god?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Did anyone seriously research a demigod and think, “If I worship anything else, it’s just too much god?”
<Pick one.>
I’m unsure.
HULL: <Hull shrugs.>
Many people worship who or what they worship out of tradition.
HULL: <Hull shrugs.>
I don’t think most gods are omnipotent.  Gods with more power probably are busier with their stuff than deities with smaller followings.
HULL: Hmm.  I hadn’t thought of the personal touch.  Thanks!
Maybe the aspect of reality is something the worshippers really like, such as farming or war.
HULL: It makes more sense for secret cults, like worshipping a god of torture.
Some people pick a deity based on a cost-benefit analysis.
HULL: Hmm.  Making it easy to join with lots of benefits sounds right!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I can just see it, kid!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Easy requirements with guaranteed acceptance!  No background check required!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I’m your god and I’ll favor you and do it all for you!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Coming soon from a heaven near you!
Many people worship someone or something out of convenience.
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: It makes sense that people would want to worship -something- because they’re scared of what happens if they don’t.
Why do so many creatures like eating human brains?
HULL: Mind Flayers are the most obvious ones here, kid.  Do brains just taste like the best thing ever to them?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Zombies count, too.  And probably other things.
<Pick one.>
I’m unsure.
HULL: <Hull shrugs.>
Maybe they do it because they can.
HULL: <Hull shrugs.>
Yes, Hull.  Maybe these brains taste like the best thing ever to them!
HULL: Ick.
Maybe they do it to inspire fear or disgust in others.
HULL: That’s the most plausible, least disgusting answer I’ve heard.  Thanks, kid!
Maybe they are not at -all- picky eaters!
HULL: <Hull looks at you incredulously.>
What have you wondered about the invisible wizard?
HULL: Years ago, I read about a wizard who mastered invisibility to be the best in the world - even better than Elminster!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: He wrote a book about how he did it, but no one ever found it.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: People searched for him to learn his secrets.  No one ever saw him again.
<Pick one.>
Is that a joke?
HULL: It -might- be!
What was that wizard’s name?
HULL: Solomon...  Ozzy...  Somethin’ like that.  Go look him up.  Wizard, sorcerer, I’m not sure.
I don’t get it.
HULL: Give it time.
I get it!
HULL: Good, kid!
Shut up, Hull!
HULL: <Hull snickers.>
Why do people feel comfortable doing weird things in groups?
HULL: A guy who steals is a thief and an outcast.  A buncha guys who steal are a guild.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: A guy who murders is a criminal.  Do it in a group, and you’re part of an insane cult!
<Pick one.>
I’m unsure.
HULL: <Hull shrugs.>
Everyone wants to belong, Hull.  You joined with me because you thought you belonged more with me than in Candlekeep.
HULL: <Hull sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: That’s painfully true, kid.
If you’re only talking about crime, then it’s easier to commit some crimes in a group.  If you mean in general, then it’s because people bond over similar interests and goals - whatever they are.
HULL: You’re right, kid.
I leave the answer to your imagination.
HULL: Yeah.  I have suspicions about why this is.
Why do people see individuals being much more important than groups?
HULL: Think about it, kid.  Elminster’s a famous wizard who’s also a Harper.  Drizzt’s a famous hero who’s also a drow.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: We don’t hear much about the Harpers who helped Elminster do what he’s done, or about the drow who made Drizzt the hero he is today.
<Pick one.>
I’m unsure.
HULL: <Hull shrugs.>
Maybe they do it because they can.
HULL: <Hull shrugs.>
It’s easier to see individuals than groups, Hull.
HULL: Makes sense.  I still think there’s more to it, though.
It’s up to the individuals who share the relevant parts about their lives.  Groups and group dynamics can complicate things.
HULL: Plausible answer, kid.  I like it!
Representation, Hull.  If some major figure is this way, it implies others in this group are this way.
HULL: Hmm.  That’s smart!  Thanks, kid!
Let’s switch to another topic.
HULL: If you say so.
[Dialog tree only available if Hull is a single classed Fighter] Do you like being a warrior?
HULL: Sometimes, kid.  Guarding Candlekeep gave me a -lotta- time to think about what I wanna do with my life.
What’s that?
HULL: I still wanna try a new path.  Maybe be a sneaky thief like Imoen.  I’d probably be a caster, though.  They got the most respect.
What sort of caster?
HULL: Wizard seems more promising, kid.  Wizards ruled Candlekeep, Elminster’s a Wizard, and I like the idea of being able to sneeze, wave my arms like strings, and rearrange reality!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But our group may need a priest more.  Being able to heal the sick, raise the dead, and stop hangovers might matter more than teleporting everywhere and shooting fire out of my butt.
What’s stopping you from changing?
HULL: Being a guard and a warrior worked, but if I change paths, I wanna charge in and not look back.  No regrets.  That sorta thing.  I just wanna do it at the right time.
You don’t seem like a sort of thief to me!
HULL: Kid, it’s more than just sneakin’ around in light armor and stealin’ from others.  It’s carefully hittin’ weak points.
Are you taking recommendations?
HULL: No, kid.  This is just... my life and my choice.
How would you get trained?
HULL: Kid, I got enough practice for these just hangin’ around Candlekeep and tryin’ ta stay awake.  I got the basics.  The rest comes from tryin’.
What do you think about romance?
HULL: Well, kid, your choice is your choice.  I don’t wanna stop you from being happy or fulfilling your dreams...
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But if I’m gonna guard you, kid, I got some rules.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: First, just assume I’m not interested in you romantically.  That should be an easy one to accept.  Gorion wasn’t trying to be that way and I’m not, either.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Second, -please- don’t get all romantic with Imoen.  I know she’s your -adopted- sister, but that’s just... awkward for me.  
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: If I suddenly leave because you’re gettin’ it on with your sister, don’t be surprised.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Third, if you’re serious about romancing someone, expect that you two will be together for a -long- time, maybe for life!  
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Do you want to travel everywhere with them?  Do you want to raise kids together?  What sort of life do you want for your family?
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I’m just sayin’ to be careful in how you choose a lover, kid.  You may -think- you’re in charge until your love uses you.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And be -super- cautious about trying to fake romantic interest with anyone to your benefit, kid, like acting as a spy.  Whoever you’re doing that with is also probably doing the same to you!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: And lastly, if I don’t feel welcome around your new lover, I may just leave.  I can tolerate a -lot- kid, but if they insult me enough or attack me or otherwise seem like a -very bad idea for you to be around-, take the hint.
But I -want- to think of you romantically!
HULL: Kid, let’s just call that a joke and move on.
What about our romantic encounters in Candlekeep?
HULL: <Hull smiles.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Whatever happened in the past -stays- in the past.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I’m yer friend ‘n’ bodyguard now.  I saw us mostly as friends, and I thought you did too!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But anyway, just thinka me as your Uncle Hull, or maybe your big, strong, hairy brother!
What do you want in a romantic partner?
HULL: Everyone who’s thought about their ideal lover has a list, kid.  There’s the practical - like being healthy and strong and rich - and the whimsical, like having different colored eyes or speaking 17 different languages.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But kid... I’d rather not focus on that now.  I’m here to help -you- fulfill your destiny!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Dwelling on romance would just get in the way for now.
Let’s talk about something else.
HULL: What next?
[If Grey the Dog or/and Haiass el Lobo Installed and at least one of these canines is in the party] What do you think of our canine companion or two?
HULL: Kid, it’s another reminder of home.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Growing up, I never had any pets for very long.  Maybe I had a pet frog I found around Candlekeep, but I never liked caring for animals much.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Still, we’re on the road and canines are good for sniffing out trouble, or hunting, or peeing in our enemies’ faces.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I’m still working on teaching ‘em that trick!
Why is everything a joke for you?
HULL: Kid, not -everything- is a joke.  I -can- be serious in serious times.  I know you can too.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Lemme put it to you this way:  We’d all rather be happy than sad or mad.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You can respect someone for being serious and doing some difficult stuff, but if I make you laugh, you like me more.  That goes for others, too.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Your friends are friends because you like them and they like you.  Lotsa feelings are involved.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: You can’t - or shouldn’t - just theorize your way into friendship.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Besides, the world’s painful enough with wars, famines, plagues, injustices, and everything else!  Let’s go laugh about how stupid this bad stuff is and keep our spirits up!
[If <CHARNAME> is a Bard of any kit] We’ll do the noteworthy stuff and I can turn it into story and song!
HULL: Yeah!  I like that!
Are you sure you shouldn’t have just been a bard?
HULL: I wasn’t raised to be a bard like some others were, kid.  Besides, I’m pretty sure I’m a better fighter than bard.
Are you saying that bards are bad?
HULL: Kid, I said what I meant and I meant what I said.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Besides, kid, on the road, everyone needs a guard.  Not everyone needs a bard.
[If <CHARNAME> is a Bard] Do you need a bard, my guard?
HULL: No, kid!  That’s -your- job!
[If Hull isn’t a Bard] If you were a bard, you could be my full-time jester!
HULL: Kid, I don’t wanna feel pressured to be funny all the time.  Besides, I sorta am your jester.
Let’s talk about something else.
HULL: OK, kid.
Why were you so drunk or hung over right before Gorion called me on my journey?
HULL: I was celebratin’ my birthday, kid.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Winthrop gave me some free food ‘n’ drinks and I made it a goal to celebrate by gettin’ drunk.  Fuller was drinkin’ with me for awhile, then he left and I won a drinking contest!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: After all, you can’t drink all day unless you start in the mornin’!
Chug!  Chug!  Chug!  Chug!
HULL: I did, kid.  I did.
That’s a -disgusting- amount of alcohol, Hull!
HULL: That’s how -I- felt the next day!
When will you drink that much again?
HULL: Probably not soon.  Maybe never.
Was it your birthday on that day?
HULL: Yeah, kid!  Of -course- I’m makin’ a big deal about it!
A drinking contest against who?
HULL: Me, kid!  I beat my record before passing out!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I don’t remember how many that was, but I know it’s more!
Let’s discuss something else.
HULL: Sure, kid.
What are your main goals in life?
HULL: <Hull sighs.>  Kid, ya made me think.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Some guys would say they want a family, a big castle, a big boat, a big spellbook, a big family, or a big harem of rich girls!
[If Hull and the party haven’t met Drizzt] Well, what about you?
HULL: I wanna see the world, go on adventures, and meet Drizzt Do’Urden.  Of course, Uncle Hull’s here to help you too, kid!
Who’s Drizzt and why do you like him?
HULL: Drizzt Do’Urden’s a famous Drow warrior.  He’s a good guy.  He kinda acts like a paladin by helping people on the surface.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I wanna meet Drizzt, kid.  I wanna know if he lives up to his heroic reputation!  Fighting alongside him would be a dream come true for me, kid!
HULL: He’s famous!  Maybe he’d teach me somethin’ handy about fighting, or give me some of his old gear, or help me be famous in a good way too, kid!
[If Hull and the party have met Drizzt] Well, what about you?
HULL: Kid, I already got to meet Drizzt, my hero!  Thanks, kid!
What’s your next goal, Hull?
HULL: Get rich, get powerful, live happy, and help us, kid.  I think we wanna make Gorion and Candlekeep proud!
[If Hull hasn’t met Drizzt but the party has] I actually met Drizzt while you were away!
HULL: <Hull looks at you, his eyes wide with surprise!  He quickly goes silent for a moment!>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Was he a great hero to you, kid?
<Pick one.>
He was all that and more, Hull!
HULL: <Hull sighs and tears come down his face.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: I wish I coulda been there -with- you!  HULL: Kid... I hope we meet him again soon.  You can introduce him to me!
He seemed like a powerful warrior.  Maybe he was a hero.
HULL: <Hull sighs and tears come down his face.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: So, the rumors ARE true!  Kid... I hope we meet him again soon.  You can introduce him to me!
The rumors about him seemed exaggerated at best, Hull.  Sorry.
HULL: <Hull sighs and tears come down his face.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, that means I GOTTA meet him!  When we do, you can introduce him to me!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Drizzt’s a LEGEND!  The rumors MUST be true!
Hull, I just don’t wanna talk about it.
HULL: <Hull sighs and tears come down his face.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, I know he’s my hero and maybe not yours... but I hope we meet him again soon.  You can introduce him to me!
[Starting in BG1 Chapter 7] Hull, do you have a deeper reason for caring about me?
HULL: <Hull sighs.>  Kid, when Gorion was around, it seemed like -everyone- respected him!  It was like there was something... special... about him.  Maybe ‘charisma’ is the right term.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: He just seemed like an honorable man, smart, diligent, and the kinda man you’d -want- as a father.
Are you saying you wish Gorion were also -your- father?
HULL: Yeah, kid.  That also makes me your brother, your big bro with big muscles and a big head!
And a big mouth!
HULL: I asked for that!
And a big heart!
HULL: Absolutely!
But I already have Imoen as an adopted sister!
HULL: Then we can be a big, happy, adopted family!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If Imoen is in the party.>
IMOEN: Yeah!  <Imoen chuckles.>
Hull, I felt awkward having you just try to be my brother just like that!
HULL: <Hull sighs.>  I know, kid.  I was bein’ playful but also bein’ serious.
[After <CHARNAME> learns about being a Bhaalspawn] Hull, something awakened in me and I learned... I’m a child of Bhaal!
HULL: <Hull stares at you for a moment, silent and wide-eyed.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid... Gorion probably knew that too for a long time.  I... don’t know what to think, but I’ll try to help.
[If <CHARNAME> was witness to Hull talking down and staring down Angelo in BG1 chapter 7] Hull, how were you able to talk down Angelo like that?
HULL: <Hull smiles and chuckles a moment.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, I had LOTSA practice by staring at walls!  <Hull sighs.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Besides, if I’m gonna act like Gorion, I gotta stick up for you, y’know?
[BG2 after Imoen is captured but before she’s rescued] Imoen’s been captured!
HULL: <Hull sighs.> Well, kid... I’m sorry.  We’ll get her back when we can.
[BG2 after <CHARNAME> has read Gorion’s Final Letter] Hull, how did you get this letter?
HULL: Tethtoril was holding onto it.  Maybe Gorion dropped it before he left, or he forgot it somewhere.  Why?
Just curious, Hull.
HULL: Alright.
It... has some -very- personal information.
HULL: <Hull shrugs.>
Did you read this letter before giving it to me?
HULL: Yeah, kid.  I know about your heritage and I chose to run -to- you instead of -from- you.
How could you?!  This was private information!
HULL: It -may- have been private, but if I’m gonna act like Gorion, I had to -think- like him!  Besides, it could’ve been -very- important, and it was!
Why read it, Hull?
HULL: It -may- have been private, but if I’m gonna act like Gorion, I had to -think- like him!  Besides, it could’ve been -very- important, and it was!
Thanks, Hull, for knowing about me and choosing to stay with me.
HULL: <Hull sighs.>  Well, kid, -that’s- a relief!
Bad, Hull!  Bad, BAD Hull!  Pack your things and leave me, NOW!
HULL: Sorry, kid.  When you come to your -senses,- you can find me where you found me.  <Hull leaves the party.>  <END DIALOG.>
Let’s talk about something else.
HULL: What’s next?
[BG2 after Hull joins the party] Hull, how do you think you compare to Gorion when it comes to being my foster father?
HULL: I think I’m doin’ a good job, kid!  I’m tryin’ my best!
And you’re doing a good job.  Thanks, Hull!  Keep going!
HULL: That’s a relief to hear!
Hull, I’m concerned you’re trying -too- hard to replace Gorion.
HULL: Whadda ya mean, kid?
Gorion’s long dead, Hull.  I’m at least mostly over his death.  It seems you aren’t.
HULL: Kid, Gorion was a good man and I -still- wanna be like him.
Hull, I -know- you want to be like Gorion, but you can’t replace him.  Candlekeep was and may still be our home, but we can’t act like the world is the same as the time before Gorion escorted me out of Candlekeep’s gate and died by Sarevok.
HULL: <Hull groans.>  Kid, you know me too well.  I... felt guilty I let Gorion out, just to have him die so soon afterward.  It hurt, kid... and I’ve been compensating.
Hull, it isn’t your fault.  If you tried stopping him from leaving, he would’ve found another way out and you would’ve been in trouble.
HULL: Thanks, kid.  That... was comforting.
What does it mean to you to be Hull and not Gorion?  You can be like Gorion if you want, but you can’t simply -be- Gorion just by wanting and trying, Hull.
HULL: What about with spells, kid?
Hull, now -that’s- just trying too hard!
HULL: At least yer thinkin, kid!
That was less funny than you tried to make it sound.
HULL: Alright, kid.  Point taken.
Answer the question, Hull.
HULL: Being me means not -trying- to be Gorion.  It means... finding out who I am and what I want and going with that.
Hull, you can learn from Gorion’s example and be my friend, my ally, and my brother in battle, but remember I’m no longer the same child Gorion started caring for in Candlekeep many years ago.
<Proceed as if the party had chosen the next dialog option.>
Hull, if you want time alone to rest and reflect, you can take it.  Please don’t feel obligated to follow me everywhere I go.  I’m an adult now and I can get others to help me too if I want.
HULL: <Hull winces.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: <Hull sighs.>  Kid... I know you’re right.
Hull, as your friend, I -insist- you now take time away from the group to sort through your well-intentioned identity crisis.  We’ll talk more later.
HULL: <Tears start falling down Hull’s face.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Kid, alright.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If the party is in Shadows of Amn.>
HULL: Look for me at the Copper Coronet.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<If the party is in Throne of Bhaal.>
HULL: Send me back to that freaky pocket plane.  <Hull is affected by the Pocket Plane transportation animation and disappears.>
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
<Hull leaves the party.>
Hull, stay by my side for now and think through things as we travel.  If you seem like you need a break from the group, I’ll dismiss you for a while.  Or just ask.
HULL: Sure, kid.  Thanks.
Hull, I know you can do a better job of being a foster father.  I’m unsure how to put it into words.
HULL: Well, kid, since you haven’t disowned me, I think I’m doin’ a good enough job.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Still, I’ll stay alert for other ways I can be a better Uncle Hull.
HULL: You brought it up, kid.
[BG2EE with Wilson the Bear in the party] How do you like our group’s bear?
HULL: Wilson’s a good boy!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: Give it enough time and I’ll teach him to drink beer like a man!
[ToB after visiting Saradush at least once] What do you think of this Bhaalspawn war?
HULL: Kid, it seems like sibling rivalry on a godly scale!
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: These kids aren’t throwing temper tantrums.  They’re sieging cities, killing nations, and probably swallowing planes.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: If this is how kids of a Murder God get daddy’s attention, they’re all insane criminals!
That’s all for now, Hull.
HULL: Alright, kid.  <END DIALOG.>
ALL: BIOGRAPHIES
When asked about his past, Baeloth Barrityl - or as he prefers to be called in a showy, passionate way, “Baeloth the Entertainer” - has generally kept matters succinct but in an entertaining fashion.
        He claims he once ruled the Underdark’s entertainment with a “crusade of carnage,” by “pitting perfectly profound pissed-off peers against each other.”  Some people willingly entered themselves as combatants in Baeloth’s Black Pits, duels to the death, though most were tricked or enslaved into doing so.  Regardless, betting on the combatants was -heavily- encouraged and, of course, Baeloth received a portion of the profits.
However, things changed when a gladiator whose name Baeloth -refused- to tell deposed the Drow in his own Black Pits.  Baeloth died but his previous bargains with entities he again refuses to name granted him another chance at life - on the surface.  Now evicted from his once-great entertainment empire, the Drow is determined to start again to reach bigger and better heights and battles than he ever did before he was beaten in the Underdark.
“After all,” Baeloth says with a wicked grin, “all the world’s a stage with fight scene after fight scene.  Nation against nation and brother against brother makes a drama like no other!”  Perhaps Baeloth has taken solace in his defeat and reformed.  Slightly.  He -is- a Drow whose driving force in life has been to enslave and indirectly kill others for profit and entertainment.
Still, does his arrival in Amn mean he is serious about putting his previous gladiatorial battle master passion aside?
When asked about his past, Hull, the former Candlekeep guardsman tells me he grew up in Candlekeep.  His mother died in childbirth to bear him and his father stole a rare book and used it to grant his son and him safety before dying soon after.
Without the prestigious connections or sponsorship of the sages of Candlekeep like Gorion or Tethtoril, there wasn’t much chance for him to become a caster.  He certainly was mentally capable and had enough of an appreciation for reading that he read much of Candlekeep’s library, but he was considered abandoned... until he was adopted by Candlekeep’s guard.
        For Hull, life in Candlekeep was mostly safe and stable but utterly -boring.-  Shifts as a guard seemed to last for days, mostly blurring together.  Drinking at Winthrop’s inn with his fellow guardsmen, especially Fuller - a man who seemed to take his guard post more seriously and was scheduled for a promotion sooner - was one of his few delights.  Among Hull’s other delights were reading on occasion, but also meeting various dignitaries that came into Candlekeep, even if it was mostly to give them directions and carry their things.
Hull concluded that Candlekeep was one of the best places to live if you were a book-loving caster, or if you could somehow get in and didn’t have much time to live:  Every day seemed like an eternity.
But something happened the day that Hull let Gorion out of Candlekeep for the last time.  Hull noticed the ‘light show’ or the spells that Gorion cast to save my life from his attackers.  It made him realize there was something more to life to enjoy and to encounter and overcome than the mind-numbing boredom of staring at walls for hours at a time.  It seemed that Candlekeep needed him, that -I- needed him, and Hull would be the best stand-in for Gorion he could be as my ‘Uncle Hull.’
Why ‘Uncle?’  He knows he isn’t my father, but he’s sort of like extended family to me from Candlekeep.  He certainly tries to be the best father figure he can be to me.  Hull wants to be with me to help me and guide me, but not boss me around.  He has standards and he’s no puppet, but he’s trying to be patient and loving as he thought Gorion was with me.
        Hull sometimes calls himself by his real name - Charlie - but prefers the term Hull.  It’s big and strong like a ship instead of something saccharine.  Hull was initially the name he was teased with because his tormentors wanted it to mean ‘hollow skull.’  Hull owned the term and showed them he wasn’t just muscle.
As for how he became so strong, it’s probably because of being adopted early as a guard.  As he told me, “You try wearing a hundred pounds of metal every day for years and you see what happens.”
Sometimes I wonder if Hull is trying -too- hard to be Gorion.  He keeps asking things like, “What would Gorion do?”  Yes, Hull respected Gorion deeply, and Gorion was the sort of father figure Hull wished he had growing up, but I can tell Hull is trying to figure out what he wants in life by helping me understand who I am, what I can do, and what I -should- be doing. 
        Hull does care about Candlekeep and Imoen and might die for either of these, but it seems Gorion’s intimate and loving relationship with me matters more to him than Candlekeep or Imoen.  Hull respects them, yes, but he seems -far- more interested in helping me do what I should do than telling Imoen to stop stealing again.
Hull has said that whatever Gorion had planned for me, it was so important that Elminster himself - the great Sage of Shadowdale and the Chosen of Mystra - wanted me to fulfill it!
        Hull also told me that he respects and admires Drizzt, the Drow hero of the surface people.  Hull might even like Drizzt so much that he would drop me to be Drizzt’s friend or apprentice!
Still, Hull has a loving and patient heart and he’s good as a bodyguard and friend.  He’s someone from Candlekeep that understands and respects me - usually - and keeping him as a friend is probably worthwhile.
Trinden Felsad is Head of House Felsad, and nephew of the house’s founder, Conrad Linus Felsad.  Hailing from an alternative material plane of Yevir - one known for its political intrigue; prominence of trade houses; proliferation of machines sentient and otherwise; discrimination against humans, elves, and dwarves; and its industrialized magic - Trinden has become one of the most powerful beings on his home plane.  His journey has been long, it has not been alone, and most of it he recorded in his autobiography, “The Metaphysical Revolution - An Autobiographical History of the Last Days of the Material Plane of Yevir - By its Conqueror and Savior, Trinden Felsad.”  Ultimately, having awakened its creator deity from her slumber at the center of the world to prevent the world’s destruction, Trinden and those with him have been granted a rare boon - the power to become gods of their own realms.
        As part of this training, each member of Trinden’s group was sent to a separate plane to study someone who was amidst ascending to divinity to be better prepared, and to aid this fledgeling deity along the way.  Trinden was sent to Faerun to assist <CHARNAME> on <PRO_HISHER> journey and aid <PRO_HISHER> decision.
        Beyond this, Trinden has acted as a fierce and intimidating warrior-priest, a metaphysical craftsman, a diplomat, a philosopher, an author, and an accomplished pureblood Orc who underwent an experimental ritual perfected by his uncle to transform him into a part-dragon.  To what degree his accomplishments are due to his association with his uncle who was a metaphysical and crafting prodigy, his own prodigious talents, the right environment, and pure chance Trinden has not said.
However, Trinden has reinforced one of his simple sets of beliefs which he has called Trinden’s Trinity:  “Magic solves everything; violence solves everything; and money solves everything” with the best solution being contextual.  In speaking this - and seemingly everything else in your presence - Trinden has exuded -supreme- confidence as if he never learned to doubt or fear.  Considering how far he’s come in life, perhaps this is an attitude you should adopt.
Volothamp Geddarm, or Volo for short, claims to be a bard, a sage, a traveler of the planes, a friend to Elminster, a surgeon, an expert in horticulture, a muse of the gods, and the life of every party he attends!  It seems Volo is either Faerun’s most accomplished human, its greatest braggart, or at least one of its most compelling storytellers.
Volo has been much more interested in talking about more recent matters - about what he has called ‘The Bhaalspawn Saga’ - and <CHARNAME>’s place in it.  Volo has tended to follow the action wherever it leads him, and sometimes that action has been around <CHARNAME>.
        Volo has encountered a variety of troubles in his travels, but he’s always found a way to prevent them from overwhelming him.  Perhaps this means he’s guarded by a benevolent deity.  Perhaps he’s exceptionally lucky.  Perhaps his love of drama has caught up with him so to speak and his desire to be at the center of the most interesting parts of life have put him continually on the world stage as an actor protected by a benevolent writer’s plot.
        Of course, Volo being the master writer he is, he seems to have notes - however accurate - on every person <CHARNAME> has come across.  If not for his friendly demeanor and tendency for exaggeration or showmanship, you may mistake him for a spy!
Furthermore, Volo has been a tangential part of <CHARNAME>’s life for most of <PRO_HISHER> life, due to visiting Candlekeep and occasionally meeting with Gorion, Elminster, Tethtoril, and other sages there.  While not Candlekeep’s best patron, Volo has seemingly assimilated the knowledge of Candlekeep’s most entertaining figures such as Drizzt or Elminster at a superhuman speed!
        Oh, yes.  What else should I say in this part?  Nevermind.  Something more interesting is about to happen any moment.  I just KNOW it!
ALL: NEW ITEMS - PORTABLE HOLE/CARLISLE
These are new items associated with Carlisle, House Cannith, and the Portable Hole Tavern.
Unless stated otherwise, assume all weapons, armor, and shields are equippable by all kits who can normally equip them.  All other equippables are intended to be allowed to be equipped by any kit.
Acid Bath Light Repeating Crossbow +3
Proficiency: Light Crossbow
This crossbow with blue and green designs is actually a repeating light crossbow, able to shoot bolts faster than normal.
+1 attack per round (APR) with this weapon.
-In the Abilities section for this weapon, you can choose to shoot an infinite amount of +3 bolts that also deal +d6 acid damage.  If one of these bolts hits its target - an object or a creature - it also does 1 acid damage to all other creatures and objects within 3’.
MOD SOURCE: Hull NPC
Item Value: 17,000G
Acid Bath Light Repeating Crossbow +5
Proficiency: Light Crossbow
This crossbow with blue and green designs is actually a repeating light crossbow, able to shoot bolts faster than normal.
+1 attack per round (APR) with this weapon.
-In the Abilities section for this weapon, you can choose to shoot an infinite amount of +5 bolts that also deal +d6+1 acid damage.  If one of these bolts hits its target - an object or a creature - it also does 2 acid damage to all other creatures and objects within 3’.
MOD SOURCE: Hull NPC
Item Value: 30,000G
Artificer’s Goggles
This ornate set of goggles with a head strap is inlaid with a symbol of a silver bull, the emblem of House Cannith.
While wearing this pair of goggles, you gain these effects:
-Detect Invisibility (continuous, passive)
-True Seeing 3/day
+100 Lore (continuous, passive)
MOD SOURCE: Hull NPC
NOTE: I planned to use this goggle icon.
Item Value: 25,000G
Carlisle’s House Cannith Signet Ring
This silver signet ring has the emblem of a steel bull on it, the emblem of House Cannith.
On the inside is carefully inscribed, “Justin Ben Carlisle d’Cannith, son of Wilanthor Vilargo d’Cannith.”
While wearing this ring, you gain these effects:
-Your AC and all your saves each improve by 2.
+1 INT, WIS, and CHA.
-You can use Control Construct 3/day at caster level 14 to take control of any construct such as a golem within 30’ for 1 day on a failed save vs. spell at a -2 penalty.  Spell resistance doesn’t apply.
MOD SOURCE: Hull NPC
Item Value: 18,000G
Collapsing Portable Hole
This bluish-black circle is slowly collapsing into itself.  However, you may be able to harness its power for some purposes.
-Activating a Collapsing Portable Hole grants you the innate ability to warp inside it - Portable Hole Warp.  You may only learn this ability once, no many how many Collapsing Portable Holes you activate.
-Only the main character (<CHARNAME>) may activate this item.
MOD SOURCE: Hull NPC
Item Value: 10,000G
NOTE: This item uses the Collapsed Portable Hole icon.  It is intended to be usable by all classes and kits.
Crafter’s Chain +4
Proficiency: Chainmail
This set of chainmail is ornately decorated with emblems of a steel bull, the icon of Eberron’s House Cannith.
-While wearing this armor, spellcasting is permitted and your thieving skills are not penalized.
-Your fatigue is continually set to 1, effectively making you immune to fatigue effects.
-Your HP per second regeneration increases by 2.
+1 caster level.
MOD SOURCE: Hull NPC
Item Value: 20,000G
Crafter’s Chain +6
Proficiency: Chainmail
This set of chainmail is ornately decorated with emblems of a steel bull, the icon of Eberron’s House Cannith.
-While wearing this armor, spellcasting is permitted and your thieving skills are not penalized.
-Your fatigue is continually set to 1, effectively making you immune to fatigue effects.
-Your HP per second regeneration increases by 2.
+1 caster level.
MOD SOURCE: Hull NPC
Item Value: 25,000G
Golemsmith’s Belt
This gold and red belt with a green and silver buckle seems to hum and occasionally pulse with blue light.
While wearing this belt, you gain these effects:
-You gain immunity (+100% resistance) to acid, electricity, and fire.
-You can use Reconstruct 5/day to fully heal any construct such as a golem and remove any negative statuses as per the Heal spell.
MOD SOURCE: Hull NPC
Item Value: 25,000G
Mechanic’s Gloves
This set of gloves aids in the dexterity of its wearer as well as some of his thieving skills if he has them.
While wearing these gloves, you gain these effects:
+2 DEX
+35% Find/Disarm Traps, Open Locks, and Set Traps
MOD SOURCE: Hull NPC
Item Value: 12,000G
Necklace of Adaptation
This simple necklace prevents being harmed by various cloud and fog effects.
BASE GAMES
-Death Fog
-Gas Cloud (Adamantine Golem, Iron Golem, etc.)
-Incendiary Cloud
-Stinking Cloud
-Writhing Fog
ICEWIND DALE/IWDIFICATION
-Cloud of Pestilence
-Mind Fog
SHADOW MAGIC
-Blinding Mist
SoD to BG2EE ITEM UPGRADE
-Deleterious Nimbus
SPELL REVISIONS
-Acid Fog
-Obscuring Mist
-All base game spells already listed above
MOD SOURCE: Hull NPC
Item Value: 5,000G
Pocket Construct (Clay Golem)
This small figurine of a Clay Golem has a button on its back that, when pushed, transforms it into a full-sized Clay Golem for 1 day with the stats below.  It’s considered a Gated creature, not a summoned one, even though it counts against the summoned creature limit.
-= Stats =-
  - STR: 19 (other ability scores are 9)
  - HP: 50
  - AC: 7
  - THAC0: 6
  - APR: 1
  - Saves: 7/9/8/8/10
- Resistances:
  - Magic: 90
  - Fire: 50
  - Magic Fire: 50
  - Cold: 100
  - Magic Cold: 100
  - Electricity: 100
  - Slashing: 100
  - Piercing: 100
  - Missile: 100
- Immune to non-magical weapons
- May cast Haste on self
- There is a 1% chance that clay golems may go berserk during combat for 1d6 rounds and attack the nearest creature in sight.
- Has an innate Teleport ability which allows this creature to warp next to any party member on the same map at will.  Usable outside of combat only.
MOD SOURCE: Hull NPC
Item Value: 1,000G
Pocket Construct (Iron Golem) 
This small figurine of an Iron Golem has a button on its back that, when pushed, transforms it into a full-sized Clay Golem for 1 day with the stats below.  It’s considered a Gated creature, not a summoned one, even though it counts against the summoned creature limit.
-= Stats =-
  - STR: 22 (other stats are 9)
  - HP: 80
  - AC: 3
  - THAC0: 3
  - APR: 1
  - Saves: 3/5/4/4/6
- Resistances:
  - Magic: 90
  - Fire: 100
  - Magic Fire: 100
  - Cold: 100
  - Magic Cold: 100
  - Electricity: 100
  - Acid: 75
  - Slashing: 20
  - Piercing: 20
  - Missile: 20
- Immune to non-magical, +1 and +2 weapons
- May cast Gas Cloud on self
MOD SOURCE: Hull NPC
Item Value: 3,000G
Pocket Construct (Stone Golem) 
This small figurine of a Stone Golem has a button on its back that, when pushed, transforms it into a full-sized Clay Golem for 1 day with the stats below.  It’s considered a Gated creature, not a summoned one, even though it counts against the summoned creature limit.
-= Stats =-
  - STR: 20 (other stats are 9)
  - HP: 60
  - AC: 5
  - THAC0: 7
  - APR: 1
  - Saves: 5/7/6/5/8
- Resistances:
  - Magic: 90
- Immune to non-magical and +1 weapons
- May cast Slow on opponents in 30 feet radius of golem
- There is a 1% chance that stone golems may go berserk during combat for 1d6 rounds and attack the nearest creature in sight.
- Has an innate Teleport ability which allows this creature to warp next to any party member on the same map at will.  Usable outside of combat only.
MOD SOURCE: Hull NPC
Item Value: 2,000G
Red Shift Boots
This pair of boots is colored red with decorations of flames and other things to imply speed.
        While wearing these ring, you gain these effects:
-You are immune to Slow effects as per the spell.
-Your movement speed increases as if you were wearing Boots of Speed.
-You can use Improved Haste 2/day at caster level 14.
-You can use Dimension Door 3/day at caster level 14.
MOD SOURCE: Hull NPC
Item Value: 30,000G
Ring of Force Field
This black ring occasionally pulses with blue light, but bears no other identifiable markings.
While wearing this ring, you gain these effects:
-You are immune to critical hits.
-You are continually affected by the Shield spell.
-You gain immunity (+100% resistance) to magic damage such as from Magic Missile or Horrid Wilting.
--You can use Globe of Invulnerability 2/day at caster level 14.
-You can use Protection from Magical Weapons 1/day at caster level 14.
MOD SOURCE: Hull NPC
Item Value: 25,000G
ALL: NEW ITEMS - NOTES
Elminster’s Handwritten Note to <CHARNAME>
To <CHARNAME>, the child of Bhaal and of Gorion:
I believe that you will choose wisely at the right time.  These words do not come cheaply, but from an earnest belief that your destiny lies in rejecting your murderous heritage and embracing the loving nurturing Gorion gave you up close and I gave you from afar.  On behalf of Gorion, Candlekeep, the Harpers, Faerun, and Mystra, I -strongly- urge you to heed this request!
Your words to the Solar Angel are of divine importance and determine your final destiny - whether you are hunted forever as a villain and threat to the realms or hailed throughout the ages as a hero.
If you are granted an opportunity to ascend to divinity as an agent of righteousness and not of wickedness, I -strongly- urge you to do so!
Remember that you have lived an adventurous life and a legendary life of which many have dreamed!  I look forward to reading Volo’s commentary on your journey and perhaps giving it a good chuckle at his embellishments.
-Elminster Aumar, the Chosen of Mystra, the ‘Old Mage’ and the Sage of Shadowdale
Elminster’s Handwritten Note to Hull
To Hull, because I knew you would ask.
Elminster’s Note to Volo
Volo, my compatriot, I know not yet when I shall find it necessary for us to meet again in person, but I suspect it shall be soon.  Be ready for a Sending spell from me explaining more at the right time.
Gorion’s Final Letter
<CHARNAME>, my child, I write this to you on the eve of our departure.  There is much I want to tell you that I am wary of sharing because it is of great importance to you as well as the very nature of our reality.
First, I must remind you of this:  I love you, and I am so very glad I found you and raised you as my own!  Whatever antics and misbehaviors you did leading up to this point, I have forgiven, and I likewise forgive you, too, my child entirely and whole-heartedly.  I believe you will do the right thing at the right time.  You have grown, and I can no longer decide your fate for you as I once did.  This equally applies to your adoptive sister, Imoen.
And now, my child, I share this news with a heavy heart, eager for you to understand, but confident you will grasp its importance immediately or at the right time.
You are the child of a god, born from the Time of Troubles, when gods were punished by walking the lands as mortals.  Some were even killed.  Were you a product of Oghma or Ilmater, I would have no trouble sharing this with you.  You are not.
You, <CHARNAME>, are a child of Bhaal, a Bhaalspawn, and one of many throughout the lands and perhaps even the planes.  Bhaal, the former Lord of Murder, was one of the gods slain in the Time of Troubles, and his lineage is that of war and bloody murder.  Do you think it a coincidence that there are so many wars and rumors of wars nowadays, <CHARNAME>?  If so, be blinded no more to the reality:  It is the nature of the Bhaalspawn to spread massive bloodshed with the intent of reviving or replacing Bhaal as the next God of Murder!
Rumors have brewed, my child, that Sarevok, a political figure operating in and around Baldur’s Gate, is a Bhaalspawn, and that there are others in this region.
Fear not, my child.  Not all Bhaalspawn are as bloodthirsty as Bhaal himself.  Some are simply... less powerful in that way.
As for what kind you are, my child, I strongly suspect Bhaal’s power is greater in you.
My child, I was hesitant to share the truth of this matter with you, for who would believe you and still treat you civilly?  Would you be able to forgive yourself for your heritage beyond your control?
And, my child, another revelation I was concerned about:  Your adopted sister Imoen is also a child of Bhaal.  She has shown less potent symptoms of Bhaal’s influence than you, and is safer in Candlekeep.  I also know she is a rambunctious one, determined, and strong-willed, and her buoyant nature has kept Bhaal’s essence at bay.  I ask that you two treat each other well for your sakes and for mine.
My fellow Harper friends and correspondents Khalid and Jaheira do not yet know your true nature.  I have not revealed that aspect of your lives to them.  I have asked them to be patient with you, just as I ask you to be patient with them.
I have only revealed your divine lineage and true nature to Elminster, my fellow Harper, and trustworthy friend.  Yes, he is the Chosen of Mystra and a legend in our time.  He is a powerful wizard and sage, but do not expect him to solve your problems for you, nor live your life for you!  He deals with the planes, the gods, and other cosmic forces, and wishes to remain neutral on the matter of the Bhaalspawn.  If he does intervene, it would be in subtle ways to prevent the total annihilation of life on Faerun or throughout the planes.
As for how I asked for Elminster to intervene, it was on the matters of Alaundo’s prophecy, the nature of the Bhaalspawn, how to handle the Bhaalspawn, and what all of these likely meant for continued life and peace in the lands.
In our journeys, should we ever become separated, let us meet at the Friendly Arm Inn northeast of Candlekeep.  There, I have instructed my fellow Harpers Khalid and Jaheira to await our arrival - together or separately.  From there, we will finalize our plans to prepare all of us for the coming days.  If all goes well, we shall gather more Harper allies and consult with Elminster himself.
<CHARNAME> and Imoen, for now I ask for your patience.  Remember that I love you and shall continue to love you knowing who you are and who you can become.  You are more than the seed of the Lord of Murder.  You can choose your path.  I ask you choose well!
-Your foster father, Gorion.
Hull’s Initiation - Illithid Extermination Assignment Orders from Prelate Wessalen
Hull, this assignment determines your fate as a member of our order.
We have recently received word that vile creatures from the Underdark have been covertly scouting our city from below.  These Illithids - known also to many as Mind Flayers - are likely somewhere in or near Athkatla’s sewers.  We have reason to believe that they have been in contact with others of their kind.
These Illithids are not an immediate threat, but will likely become one if left alone.  Your job is to stop this threat.  These creatures are evil by nature, and will likely require much preparation and violence to overcome.
If you can somehow negotiate peacefully with them into leaving Athkatla and its underground territory, that is even better.  However, that is NOT at all likely.  In this case, you should prepare for war!
Illithids have also commonly enslaved others.  If you can, spare whatever slaves you find, if any.  Destroy the slaves if you must.
Conduct yourself in a manner worthy of a member of the Most Noble Order of the Radiant Heart, but beyond this, your methods are up to you.  Who and what you bring with you will likely determine your failure or success on this mission.
There is no immediate deadline for this task, but the sooner this threat is gone, the sooner you, Hull, will be able to proceed to your next task.
The Most Noble Order of the Radiant Heart will not directly aid you in this mission.  I trust you will be properly resourceful in completing this mission.
-Prelate Wessalen, Athkatla’s Most Noble Order of the Radiant Heart
Hull On Tap (Candlekeep Region)
Kid, these are my notes about the drinks at all these places.
-The Burning Wizard
-Feldepost’s Inn
-Jovial Juggler
-Red Sheaf Inn
All of these were not very interesting.  Not bad, but Winthrop did it better.
FRIENDLY ARM INN
We have a winner!  It’s sweet beer, but too much would make me puke for another reason - it’s too sweet!
NASHKEL CITY
-Belching Dragon
Bitter beer.  Ick.
NASHKEL AREA
-Carnival - if they have a drink tent
No comment.
ULGOTH’S BEARD
-Ulgoth’s Beard’s Inn
Watered down beer due to a barmaid accident.  At least it wasn’t seawater!  That woulda been undrinkable!
From what I could tell, the rest of the beer was kinda dry.  Not bad but again not my thing.
Hull On Tap (Baldur’s Gate City)
Kid, these are my notes about the drinks at all these places.
NORTHWEST BALDUR’S GATE:
-Helm and Cloak
It’s fancy, it’s expensive, and I approve.  It’s also from Sembia!
NORTH BALDUR’S GATE:
-Three Old Kegs
It’s old, it’s potent, and easy to get drunk on.
NORTHEAST BALDUR’S GATE:
-Blushing Mermaid
Come here for the gambling and the intrigue, not the booze.
CENTRAL BALDUR’S GATE:
-Drakon’s Tavern
Mid-grade and no frills.  Not served for or from dragons.
EAST BALDUR’S GATE:
-Elfsong Tavern
Tastes like Winthrop’s recipe from Candlekeep.
SOUTH BALDUR’S GATE:
-Low Lantern - It’s a boat tavern!
Salty booze makes it fizz!  Not entirely my style, but some people like it.
SOUTHEAST BALDUR’S GATE:
-Blade and Stars
The booze is too spicy for my taste.  Again, some people like it.
Hull’s Work Order Receipt from Cromwell
<This part of the document was added to the back side of the document, seemingly at a later date.>
Dear Hull,
Welcome to the Most Noble Order of the Radiant Heart!  As a knight of our order, and because you are the first knight we have had from Candlekeep, we have furnished part of a new set of gear for you.  Most of these items will require a significant monetary investment from you to have crafted, but we have provided the other components for these items, such as jewels and rare metals.  
All these items are magical and of -exquisite- quality, with each named after a virtue of being a knight in our order.  Each name is intended to remind you of your new life and new station as a knight of our order.
<This part of the document looks original.>
This item has already been ordered and fully paid:  Sobriety (Helm).
These items have been partially paid, but Cromwell still requires his fee in gold coins.  Except as noted otherwise, all special components of these items such as gems and rare metals have been provided to Cromwell for Hull’s benefit at the order’s expense.
ARMOR, CLOTHING, AND SHIELD
-Devotion (Boots)
-Faith (Large Shield)
-Legacy (Cloak)
-Purity (Belt)
-Prudence (Gloves)
-Righteousness (Full Plate)
-Determination (Warhammer)
-Discernment (Quarterstaff)
-Division (Longsword)
-Outreach (Longbow)
-Authority (Ring)
-Courage (Pendant)
-Grace (Ring)
-Prelate Wessalen, Athkatla’s Most Noble Order of the Radiant Heart
Volo’s Handwritten Note to <CHARNAME>
To <CHARNAME>, thank you - and you too, Hull - for saving me from Saradush!
This note is an authentic piece of writing by me, Volothamp Geddarn, to commemorate this occasion, and your great appreciation of my work.
Volo’s Notes on Eberron
This document is a collection of notes written by Volo regarding the plane of Eberron as told by Carlisle of House Cannith.  It seems written and organized in such a way that even Volo may have trouble reading and understanding it!
ALL: NEW ITEMS - TOME OF UNTOLD LEGENDS QUEST
All Tome of Untold Legends items start identified!
Tome of Untold Legends (Chapter 1)
Near the top of this text is clearly written, “The Tome of Untold Legends: Chapter 1 of 8.”  The rest of the text is in a different, obscure language or some sort of cipher.
        Even if you can’t decipher most of this text, someone else almost certainly can.
MOD SOURCE: Hull
Item Value: 4,000G
Tome of Untold Legends (Chapter 2)
Near the top of this text is clearly written, “The Tome of Untold Legends: Chapter 2 of 8.”  The rest of the text is in a different, obscure language or some sort of cipher.
        Even if you can’t decipher most of this text, someone else almost certainly can.
MOD SOURCE: Hull
Item Value: 4,000G
Tome of Untold Legends (Chapter 3)
Near the top of this text is clearly written, “The Tome of Untold Legends: Chapter 3 of 8.”  The rest of the text is in a different, obscure language or some sort of cipher.
        Even if you can’t decipher most of this text, someone else almost certainly can.
MOD SOURCE: Hull
Item Value: 4,000G
Tome of Untold Legends (Chapter 4)
Near the top of this text is clearly written, “The Tome of Untold Legends: Chapter 4 of 8.”  The rest of the text is in a different, obscure language or some sort of cipher.
        Even if you can’t decipher most of this text, someone else almost certainly can.
MOD SOURCE: Hull
Item Value: 4,000G
Tome of Untold Legends (Chapter 5)
Near the top of this text is clearly written, “The Tome of Untold Legends: Chapter 5 of 8.”  The rest of the text is in a different, obscure language or some sort of cipher.
        Even if you can’t decipher most of this text, someone else almost certainly can.
MOD SOURCE: Hull
Item Value: 4,000G
Tome of Untold Legends (Chapter 6)
Near the top of this text is clearly written, “The Tome of Untold Legends: Chapter 6 of 8.”  The rest of the text is in a different, obscure language or some sort of cipher.
        Even if you can’t decipher most of this text, someone else almost certainly can.
MOD SOURCE: Hull
Item Value: 4,000G
Tome of Untold Legends (Chapter 7)
Near the top of this text is clearly written, “The Tome of Untold Legends: Chapter 7 of 8.”  The rest of the text is in a different, obscure language or some sort of cipher.
        Even if you can’t decipher most of this text, someone else almost certainly can.
MOD SOURCE: Hull
Item Value: 4,000G
Tome of Untold Legends (Chapter 8)
Near the top of this text is clearly written, “The Tome of Untold Legends: Chapter 8 of 8.”  The rest of the text is in a different, obscure language or some sort of cipher.
        Even if you can’t decipher most of this text, someone else almost certainly can.
MOD SOURCE: Hull
Item Value: 4,000G
Bastard Sword: Son of the Sun
Quest Creature to Fight if Item Not Chosen: Scourge of the Sun (Elemental Prince of Fire)
Item Type: Bastard Sword
Flavor Text: This bastard sword embodies the essence of a bastard son Half-Gold Dragon Paladin who served Bahamut faithfully, even swimming through lava to free his friends from a crashed airship after it had been rigged to explode in a hostile environment.
Even as a righteous Paladin, he was still fond of mischief, which while never stripping him of his Paladinhood, suppressed many of its benefits for a time as a reminder of the need for his utter devotion to his station.  He eventually died in combat against a horde of fire elementals of tremendous size and stature, despite warnings in his dreams not to engage with the creatures.
CONTINUOUS EFFECTS
+5 Weapon.
+d6 fire damage per hit.
+d6 damage against Evil-aligned creatures.
-You are continually affected by Protection from Evil.
+100% fire resistance.
1/DAY EFFECTS
You can use each of these effects once per day:
-You can cast the Dragon’s Breath spell as a caster level 20 Wizard.
-You can use the Wing Buffet ability to knock back and damage most creatures within 30’.  Especially big creatures such as Giants, Golems, and Dragons are immune.
MOD SOURCE: Hull
Item Value: 50,000G
Ioun Stone: The Told Legend of Galphanore
Item Type: Ioun Stone
Usable By: All classes & kits
Flavor Text: The incorporeal beholder Galphanore, with <CHARNAME>’s assistance, understood his conundrum:  His past lives were all meant to point to an ongoing and perhaps eternal story within the multiverse.  Some of the deaths of his past lives were his fault, but only some.
With the Tome of Untold Legends complete for now, and its next chapter starting with Galphanore’s next life, Galphanore’s previous life’s essence coalesced into this floating stone.
CONTINUOUS EFFECTS
-Immunity to backstabs and critical hits.
+1 to all ability scores.
-You are continually affected by a Blur spell cast by a level 20 Wizard.
-Your rate of EXP gain is increased by 50%.  This effect doesn’t apply retroactively.
1/DAY EFFECTS
You can use each of these effects once per day:
-You can cast the Death Ward spell as a caster level 20 Cleric.
-You can use the Dominate spell as a caster level 20 Wizard.
-You can use the Disintegrate spell as a caster level 20 Wizard.
MOD SOURCE: Hull
Item Value: 50,000G
Katana: The Stand-In
Quest Creature to Fight if Item Not Chosen: Scourge of Progress (Adamantine Golem)
Item Type: Katana
Flavor Text: This short sword’s handle is decorated with rabbit’s fur, green clovers, jewels, and other miscellany intended to bring luck to the wielder.  How unfortunate that for this Gnome Rogue, all these charms never saved him from his eventual death.
A lover of machines and an operator of golems, this Gnome was called upon by his friends to join them in their many adventures across the planes.  He seemed to always arrive late, making him the last to choose his role from his versatile skill set.  He quickly caught onto this trend but the damage to his reputation was done.  He was simply known as the “Stand-In.”
His death was from being surprised by a bandit with a battle axe who promptly dissected him, despite not otherwise having a scratch on him.  Then again when the golem he was piloting exploded.  Then AGAIN when he betrayed his allies by boldly claiming that one of them was cheating at a dice game.
CONTINUOUS EFFECTS
+5 Weapon.
+d6 piercing damage.
+1 backstab multiplier.  Any creature without a backstab multiplier while wielding this weapon gains a multiplier of x2.
+3 DEX.
-You are continually affected by Improved Haste.
-You are continually affected by Nondetection.
-You are immune to critical hits and backstabs.
1/DAY EFFECTS
You can use each of these effects once per day:
-You can cast the Improved Invisibility spell as a caster level 20 Wizard.
-You can cast Spell Immunity spell as a caster level 20 Wizard.
MOD SOURCE: Hull
Item Value: 50,000G
Longbow: Hunters’ Spat
Quest Creature to Fight if Item Not Chosen: Scourge of Love (Planetar)
Item Type: Longbow
Flavor Text: This Elf Ranger’s longbow was a family heirloom, for he had come from a long line of marksmen and hunters on Faerun.  Traditional game such as deer or bears quickly bored him, and so he sought greater prey.
He ventured alone and with others to hunt for the sake of hunting and kill for the sake of killing.  Elementals, undead, demons, dragons, and more were his prey because he had power, and, thus, he took lives and their goods.
After he believed he had hunted his last quarry, he settled down with a lover who was fond of his boldness, but when she learned of who he killed for sport, she furiously left him.
Heartbroken, he hid from the world and let himself starve to death.  The monsters he slew ultimately slew him.
CONTINUOUS EFFECTS
-This weapon provides an infinite supply of its own ammunition.  (+5 arrows that deal +d6 acid damage per hit.)
-You are continually affected by Haste but without the associated fatigue.
-Immunity to Disease and Poison.
+50% resistance to acid, cold, electricity, fire, and magic.
1/DAY EFFECTS
You can use each of these effects once per day:
-You can cast the Domination spell as a caster level 20 Wizard.
-You can use the True Seeing spell as a caster level 20 Wizard.
MOD SOURCE: Hull
Item Value: 50,000G
Mace: Coronation
Quest Creatures to Fight if Item Not Chosen: Scourge of Casters (2 Devil Shades)
Item Type: Mace
Flavor Text: This mace of the highest quality was given every High Priest of a now-distant and forgotten faith, one that treated arcane and divine spells as equals.  The Dwarf who ascended the throne did so reluctantly, for her colleagues had recently been threatened with death if they continued in their beliefs.
However, this Cleric held firm in her beliefs, and furthered magical research by another 50 years in the fields of arcane and divine spells, only to be killed when she sneezed during an incantation, truncating the syllable to change the target to herself instead of her foe.
CONTINUOUS EFFECTS
+5 Weapon.
+d6 magic damage per hit.
+2 INT
+2 WIS
+2 CHA
+50% spell resistance.
+50% magic damage resistance.
1/DAY EFFECTS
You can use each of these effects once per day:
-You can cast the Chain Contingency spell as a caster level 20 Wizard.
-You can cast the Mass Heal spell as a caster level 20 Cleric.  This spell affects all allies within a 30’ radius of the caster with the Heal spell.
MOD SOURCE: Hull
Item Value: 50,000G
Scimitar: Astral Curve
Quest Creatures to Fight if Item Not Chosen: Scourge of Fur (Greater Wolfwere)
Item Type: Scimitar
Flavor Text: This scimitar with graven images of wolves and lycanthropes once belonged to a Human Druid whose name - Astrid - is proudly edged into the handle.  She loved shapeshifting and tormenting her prey, especially Halflings, Gnomes, and other small folk who thought they were -so- intelligent.
She met her demise after devouring a Halfling whole while she was in Dire Wolf form.  The Halfling was a Wizard who polymorphed himself into a giant and ruptured her stomach and the rest of her body before she knew what happened.
CONTINUOUS EFFECTS
+5 Weapon.
+d6 slashing damage.
-Freedom of Movement (Free Action).
-Immunity to the effects of Disease, Disintegrate, Poison, and Polymorph Other.
-You are continually affected by Haste but without the fatigue afterward.
1/DAY EFFECTS
You can use each of these effects once per day:
-You can cast the Shapechange spell as a caster level 30 Wizard.
-You can cast the True Seeing spell as a caster level 20 Wizard.
MOD SOURCE: Hull
Item Value: 50,000G
Spear: The Ebony Spear
Quest Creature to Fight if Item Not Chosen: Scourge of Might (Elite Fire Giant)
Item Type: Spear
Flavor Text: This spear is carved from pure ebony and has miniature depictions of dragons, goblins, and even a lich crossed out on it, as if its owner killed them all and kept this as a memorial and kill count.
Its former owner was Half-Orc by birth, but was magically experimented upon and cross-bred with so many other creatures that this was effectively impossible to tell just by looking at her.  She jumped high with her minotaur legs, glided far with her draconic wings, swam with her fins and gills, and alone killed prey others no one suspected she could.
This owner has no record of her death, but for her legacy to be part of the Tome of Untold Legends, she must have died.  Right?
CONTINUOUS EFFECTS
+6 Weapon.
+2d6 piercing damage.
+3 STR.
-Freedom of Movement (Free Action).
-You are continually affected by Improved Haste.  Beyond this, your movement speed is increased by another 50%.
1/DAY EFFECTS
You can use each of these effects once per day:
-You can cast the Dimension Door spell as a caster level 20 Wizard.
-You can cast the Protection from Magic Weapons spell as a caster level 20 Wizard.
MOD SOURCE: Hull
Item Value: 50,000G
Throwing Axe: Headless Vengeance
Quest Creature to Fight if Item Not Chosen: Scourge of the Mind (Alhoon)
Item Type: Throwing Axe
Flavor Text: Unlike his sister, this Gith Ga’Roh was consumed by Illithids and began transforming into a Mind Flayer.  His sister instinctively used her psionic Telekinesis to grab the nearest weapon from the nearest thrall and decapitated her brother for the sake of their family.  He was barely transformed by the time his head was cleanly and bloodily removed from his body.
CONTINUOUS EFFECTS
+5 Weapon.
-After being thrown, this weapon immediately returns to its wielder to be used again.
+d6 slashing damage.
-Heals the wielder for d8 damage per hit.
-Immunity to Charm, Confusion, Domination, Hold/Paralyzation, Fear, Maze, Sleep, and Stun.
+25% spell resistance.
-Any Illithid or creature affected by a Charm or Domination effect hit by this weapon must make a save vs. death at a -4 penalty or die.  (Illithids in this case include Alhoons, Mind Flayers, Ulitharids, and Vampiric Mind Flayers.)
1/DAY EFFECTS
You can use each of these effects once per day:
-You can cast the Mind Blank spell as a caster level 20 Wizard.
-You can cast the Mordenkainen’s Sword spell as a caster level 20 Wizard.
MOD SOURCE: Hull
Item Value: 50,000G
Throwing Dagger: Skiver
Quest Creature to Fight if Item Not Chosen: None.  If this item is chosen, the traps in the room are auto-disabled.  These traps affect ONLY the party and are cast at caster level 30!  (I know some mods make traps also affect foes.)
Each trap, if disarmed by a rogue, is worth 5,000 EXP.
-Dispel Magic
-Horrid Wilting
-Mordenkainen’s Sword
-Stinking Cloud
Item Type: Throwing Dagger
Flavor Text: This knife embodies the essence of a Human Sorcerer who scoured the planes in search of power and knowledge to overcome the greatest threats in the multiverse, despite the gods teasing him and diminishing his magical abilities at every turn.
He would soar through skies, swim through the vast blackness of dreams, overcome the essence of madness itself, and teleport through time only to succumb to a bear trap placed by a Lich.  What a cruel, cruel fate. 
CONTINUOUS EFFECTS
+5 Weapon.
-After being thrown, this weapon immediately returns to its wielder to be used again.
-Any spell you cast has its duration doubled.
-You are continually affected by Haste but without the associated fatigue.
-Your casting speed for all spells improves by 1.
+3 Luck.
1/DAY EFFECTS
You can use each of these effects once per day:
-You can recover one spell you cast of any spell level.
-Creates a maximum of 7 traps at the wielder’s feet with a 100% chance of success as if they were placed by a level 21 Thief.  These are still subject to the normal limit of thief traps per area.
MOD SOURCE: Hull
Item Value: 50,000G
Two-Handed Sword: Zerthimon’s Guidance
Quest Creature to Fight if Item Not Chosen: Scourge of Zerthimon (Gith Gish upleveled to 16 - use Riti as a base if needed)
Item Type: Two-Handed Sword
Flavor Text: This silvery sword was believed to have been blessed by the Gith prophet Zerthimon himself, and was instrumental in freeing the Gith from their enslavement by the Illithids.  Regardless of the truth of that matter, it was once wielded by the Gith Zi’chikk, a female Fighter who lived briefly to crusade against the Illithids in the name of her queen, Vlaakith.
Outnumbered and wounded by Illithids and their many thralls on the Astral Plane, knowing obviously that her side had lost, she quickly severed her head, lest she undergo ceremorphosis and become an abomination she swore to destroy.
CONTINUOUS EFFECTS
+6 Weapon.
+d6 magic damage.
-Immunity to Charm, Confusion, Domination, Hold/Paralyzation, Fear, Maze, Sleep, and Stun.
+50% spell resistance.
-Any Illithid or creature affected by a Charm or Domination effect hit by this blade must make a save vs. death at a -4 penalty or die.  (Illithids in this case include Alhoons, Mind Flayers, Ulitharids, and Vampiric Mind Flayers.)
-Casts a caster level 30 Dispel Magic on a target on each hit.
1/DAY EFFECTS
You can use each of these effects once per day:
-You can cast the Dispel Magic spell as a caster level 30 Wizard.
-You can cast the Mind Blank spell as a caster level 20 Wizard.
MOD SOURCE: Hull
Item Value: 50,000G
ALL: NEW ITEMS - VOLO
Volo’s Lucky Hood of Disguise
Volo calls this his Lucky Hood of Disguise.  He claims it has saved his life - in acting and in general - more times than he can count.  Perhaps this item coupled with Volo’s entertainment-focused attitude toward life and writing has rightfully earned him the title “Volo the Hunted.”
Volo has been remarkably ambiguous about what the “disguise” part of the hood means.
-While equipped, this hood improves the wearer’s Luck score by 2.  It stacks with all other Luck effects such as a Stone of Good Luck or the Luck spell.
-Immunity to critical hits.
EQUIPPABLE BY: Volo (only)
Mod Source: Hull
BG2: NEW ITEMS - BAELOTH
Baeloth’s Belt of Holding
This black belt with a silver buckle has small bags to bear certain items in extradimensional space, nullifying their weight burden.
-This belt is considered a container and can hold any item that a Bag of Holding could with the same capacity as a Bag of Holding.
EQUIPPABLE BY:
BASE SELL VALUE: 1,000G
Mod Source: Baeloth in Baldur’s Gate II
Baeloth’s Pentagram Pendant
This white and silver pendant protrudes from below its wearer’s neck and provides certain magical properties.
-While equipped, you are continually affected by Protection from Evil cast at caster level 12.
EQUIPPABLE BY:
-Mage (single, dual-, or multi-classed)
-Only usable by Evil-aligned creatures
BASE SELL VALUE: 3,000G
Mod Source: Baeloth in Baldur’s Gate II
Baeloth’s Silver Coin
Baeloth gave you this coin for doing him a significant favor.  At the right time, you can return this coin to him for a favor in the moment.
The front of the coin has an ornamental skull with other ornate decorative carvings.
On the back, written in very small text, almost illegibly, is this:
“Each coin valid for one favor from Baeloth the Entertainer.  No refunds nor exchanges.  Must surrender coin to activate favor.  Baeloth must be capable of performing said favor for it to count.  Baeloth will not obey suicidal orders.  Void where prohibited.  All rights reserved.”
Mod Source: Baeloth in Baldur’s Gate II
Baeloth’s Spinal Staff +3
This white-blue staff looks like a straightened tall, human spine, and at the top is a human skull with its lower jaw hung permanently open as if in awe.  The combined skull and spinal column holding up the staff is slightly taller than Baeloth.
While equipped, you can cast each of these 3/day at caster level 12:
-Animate Dead
-Cone of Cold
EQUIPPABLE BY:
-Mage (single, dual-, or multi-classed)
-Only usable by Evil-aligned creatures
BASE SELL VALUE: 10,000G
Mod Source: Baeloth in Baldur’s Gate II
BG2: NEW ITEMS - HULL’S CUSTOM GEAR AFTER BEING KNIGHTED
Amulet: Courage
Item Type: Necklace
Usable By: Anyone of Lawful Good (LG) alignment
Flavor Text: Fear destroys decisions and delays destinies.  Courage empowers decisions and allows you to fulfill your purpose in life. -Prelate Wessalen
-You are continually affected by a Vocalize effect, making you immune to Silence effects.
-You are immune to fear effects.  You can also cast Emotion: Courage and Resist Fear 3/day, each at caster level 20.
Acquisition Cost: 8000G
Belt: Purity
Item Type: Belt
Usable By: Anyone of Lawful Good (LG) alignment
Flavor Text: Noble purity of vision, purity of purpose, and purity of heart are at the core of what it means to be a knight and a force for righteousness.  Proper faith protects. -Prelate Wessalen
-You are immune to the effects of ability score damage & drain (STR, INT, etc.), disease, poison, and negative levels/energy drain.
-You can cast Lesser Restoration and Neutralize Poison 3/day, each at caster level 20.
Acquisition Cost: 15,000G
Body Armor: Righteousness
Item Type: Full Plate +2
Usable By: Anyone of Lawful Good (LG) alignment
Flavor Text: Righteousness is your spiritual right standing.  Always remember this. -Prelate Wessalen
+2 WIS, +2 CHA
-You are immune to backstabs, critical hits, disintegration, Imprisonment, and Maze.
-You can cast Fire Shield (Red) 3/day at caster level 20.
Acquisition Cost: 20,000G
Boots: Devotion
Item Type: Boots
Usable By: Anyone of Lawful Good (LG) alignment
Flavor Text: Devotion combines wisdom with persistence and an intentional purpose.  Zeal without wisdom is dangerous, and wisdom without zeal is speculation, idleness, or disengagement. -Prelate Wessalen
-Your movement speed doubles.
-You are immune to Imprisonment effects.
-You are continually affected by a Freedom of Movement/Free Action effect at caster level 20.
Acquisition Cost: 15,000G
Cloak: Legacy
Item Type: Cloak
Usable By: Anyone of Lawful Good (LG) alignment
Flavor Text: A good reputation is to be prized highly, even above great wealth. -Prelate Wessalen
+2 bonus to all saves.
-You are continually affected by a Friends effect, granting you a +6 CHA bonus.
IF YOUR REPUTATION IS AT LEAST 18, YOU ALSO GAIN THESE BENEFITS:
-You are immune (+100%) to magic damage, such as from Skull Trap and Horrid Wilting.
-You are continually affected by Emotion: Hope and Nondetection at caster level 20.
-You are immune to all weapons with an enchantment of +3 or below, including nonmagical weapons.
Acquisition Cost: 18,000G
Gloves: Prudence
Item Type: Gloves
Usable By: Anyone of Lawful Good (LG) alignment
Flavor Text: Prudence allows for proper contemplation and patience before acting.  Fools are quick to show their annoyance and foolishness in word and deed. -Prelate Wessalen
-You are continually affected by a caster level 20 Haste.
-You can cast Cause Critical Wounds, Cure Critical Wounds, and Haste each 3/day at caster level 20.
Acquisition Cost: 20,000G
Large Shield: Faith
Item Type: Large Shield +3
Usable By: Anyone of Lawful Good (LG) alignment
Flavor Text: Faith is the confidence that brings the supernatural into the natural realm.  Proper faith protects. -Prelate Wessalen
+3 bonus to AC
-You are continually affected by a Protection from Evil effect.
-You are immune to Magic Missile effects and fire damage (+100% fire resistance).
-You can cast Armor of Faith and Shield of the Archons and Resist Fear 3/day, each at caster level 20.
Acquisition Cost: 20,000G
Helm: Sobriety
Item Type: Helm
Usable By: Hull only
Flavor Text: Remain sober, acting only with spiritual discernment.  Remain as a patient stranger in a hostile and foreign land. -Prelate Wessalen
-You are immune to critical hits, disease, intoxication, poison, and sleep.
-You are continually affected by a caster level 20 Detect Invisibility.
-You can cast Neutralize Poison and True Seeing 3/day at caster level 20.
Item Value: 20,000G (Given for free from Cromwell for Hull’s knighthood quest completion)
Ring: Authority
Item Type: Ring
Usable By: Anyone of Lawful Good (LG) alignment
Flavor Text: Submit to rightful authority and in so doing show proper respect, humility, and cooperation. -Prelate Wessalen
-Most vendors will give you 10% better prices on items you buy from them and sell to them.  This benefit won’t reduce such buy prices below 100% nor increase sell prices above 100% of their market value.
-You are immune to Charm, Confusion, Domination, Fear, and Feeblemind effects.
-You can cast Breach, Dispel Magic, and Pierce Shield 3/day, each at caster level 20.
Acquisition Cost: 15,000G
Ring: Grace
Item Type: Ring
Usable By: Anyone of Lawful Good (LG) alignment
Flavor Text: You were treated better than you deserve by joining us.  Extend this grace to others in need, see the good and remain thankful in situations unfavorable and favorable, and remain patient and wise to find and bring out the best in others. -Prelate Wessalen
-While equipped, all allies within 30’ of you including you regenerate +5 HP per second.  This effect stacks with other forms of regeneration and healing.
-You can cast Bless, Emotion: Hope, Otiluke’s Resilient Sphere, and Resurrection 3/day, each at caster level 20.
Acquisition Cost: 14,000G
Weapon (Warhammer): Determination
Item Type: Warhammer +4
Usable By: Anyone of Lawful Good (LG) alignment
Flavor Text: Determination is knowing how to act, when, and why.  Determination is also the persistence to pursue goals as long as they are wise to pursue. -Prelate Wessalen
+4 weapon
+d6 fire damage per hit
-Whenever you deal HP damage with this weapon, you deal +2 crushing damage per hit with this item for 1 round.  Whenever you kill a foe or score a critical hit, this bonus damage increases to +4 per hit for 1 round.  This effect does not stack with itself.
Acquisition Cost: 20,000G
Weapon (Warhammer): Great Determination
Item Type: Warhammer +5
Usable By: Anyone of Lawful Good (LG) alignment
Flavor Text: Determination is knowing how to act, when, and why.  Determination is also the persistence to pursue goals as long as they are wise to pursue. -Prelate Wessalen
+5 weapon
+d6+2 fire damage per hit
-Whenever you deal HP damage with this weapon, you deal +3 crushing damage per hit with this item for 1 round.  Whenever you kill a foe or score a critical hit, this bonus damage increases to +5 per hit for 1 round.  This effect does not stack with itself.
Upgrade Cost: +30,000G
Weapon (Quarterstaff): Discernment
Item Type: Quarterstaff +4
Usable By: Anyone of Lawful Good (LG) alignment
Flavor Text: Discernment is knowing right from wrong, but also knowing what is correct from something else that is plausibly correct. -Prelate Wessalen
+4 weapon
+d6 fire damage per hit
+1 INT, WIS, and CHA.
+1 caster level.
+50 Lore.
-Casting speed increased by 1.
Acquisition Cost: 20,000G
Weapon (Quarterstaff): Great Discernment
Item Type: Quarterstaff +5
Usable By: Anyone of Lawful Good (LG) alignment
Flavor Text: Discernment is knowing right from wrong, but also knowing what is correct from something else that is plausibly correct. -Prelate Wessalen
+5 weapon
+d6+3 fire damage per hit.  Any creature hit by this weapon must make a save vs. death at a -2 penalty or be Stunned for 1 round.
+2 INT, WIS, and CHA.
+2 caster levels.
+100 Lore.
-Casting speed increased by 1.
Upgrade Cost: +30,000G
Weapon (Longsword): Division
Item Type: Longsword +4
Usable By: Anyone of Lawful Good (LG) alignment
Flavor Text: Division understands what is for you and what is not, and what is wise to use or keep and what is not.  Division also separates the bad from the good, as well as the good from the better from the best. -Prelate Wessalen
+4 weapon
+d6 fire damage per hit
-While this weapon is equipped, all allies within 30’ of you including you get a +2 bonus to AC and a +1 bonus to all saves, and all enemies take a -2 penalty to AC and a -1 penalty to saves.
Acquisition Cost: 30,000G
Weapon (Longsword): Great Division
Item Type: Longsword +5
Usable By: Anyone of Lawful Good (LG) alignment
Flavor Text: Division understands what is for you and what is not, and what is wise to use or keep and what is not.  Division also separates the bad from the good, as well as the good from the better from the best. -Prelate Wessalen
+4 weapon
+d6+2 fire damage per hit
-While this weapon is equipped, all allies within 30’ of you including you get a +3 bonus to AC and a +2 bonus to all saves, and all enemies take a -3 penalty to AC and a -2 penalty to saves.
Upgrade Cost: +30,000G
Weapon (Longbow): Outreach
Item Type: Longbow +4
Usable By: Anyone of Lawful Good (LG) alignment
Flavor Text: Outreach is sharing the good, the pleasing, and the perfect that have happened to you and that you see in others explicitly or implicitly, through word or through deed.  Outreach shares hope and provides the premise and promise of a better future for yourself and others. -Prelate Wessalen
+5 weapon
-Can conjure an infinite amount of +4 arrows that deal +d6 fire damage.
-With this weapon equipped, whenever you are healed for at least 1 HP or you heal any creature of any lost HP, all allies within 30’ gain the effects of Emotion: Hope for 3 rounds.
Acquisition Cost: 20,000G
Weapon (Longbow): Great Outreach
Item Type: Longbow +5
Usable By: Anyone of Lawful Good (LG) alignment
Flavor Text: Outreach is sharing the good, the pleasing, and the perfect that have happened to you and that you see in others explicitly or implicitly, through word or through deed.  Outreach shares hope and provides the premise and promise of a better future for yourself and others. -Prelate Wessalen
+5 weapon
-Can conjure an infinite amount of +5 arrows that deal +d6+2 fire damage.
-With this weapon equipped, whenever you are healed for at least 1 HP or you heal any creature of any lost HP, all allies within 30’ gain the effects of Emotion: Hope for 5 rounds.
Upgrade Cost: +30,000G
BG2: NEW ITEMS - MAIN STORY & VANILLA CONTENT
Elminster’s Bag of Holding
Note: This item starts identified.  It is red (primarily) and white (secondarily).  It only contains Elminster’s Handwritten Note to Hull.  (Tweaks Anthology has this image with recolored containers which I wanted to use as a base at least.)
Flavor Text: This is a Bag of Holding once belonging to Elminster of Shadowdale.
Hull’s Keg of Booze
Note: This item starts identified.
Flavor Text: This is a Bag of Holding once belonging to Elminster of Shadowdale.
Stats: This keg weighs 50 lb + 1 more pound per charge it has to a maximum of 200 charges.  Each charge dispenses for the user 1 alcoholic drink as if from a tavern.
BASE COST: 5000G
ToB: NEW ITEMS - HULL’S HOMECOMING QUEST
Ring: Alaundo’s Loop
Item Type: Ring
Usable By: Anyone
Flavor Text: This golden crystal seems to turn in on itself and is said to contain - or be able to tap into - the essence of eternity.  Whether this item is an original or a replica is uncertain.
CONTINUOUS EFFECTS
-You are immune to backstabs, blindness, and critical hits, as well the effects of Slow, and Time Stop.
-You are continually affected by Haste but without the associated fatigue.
AT-WILL EFFECTS
You can use these effects at will:
3/DAY EFFECTS
You can use each of these effects 3 times per day:
-Improved Haste
-True Seeing
1/DAY EFFECTS
You can use each of these effects once per day:
-Improved Alacrity
-Time Stop
Item Value: 100,000G
ToB: NEW ITEMS - TRINDEN’S ASCENSION QUEST
Consumable: Essence of Refreshment
Item Type: Consumable
Usable By: Anyone
Flavor Text: This warm light coupled with a cool breeze refreshes your party once when used, recovering all resources as if you had rested for 8 hours.
An Essence of Refreshment can only be used outside of combat.
Item Value: 10,000G
Two-Handed Sword: Haste Blade +5
Item Type: Two-Handed Swords
Usable By: Fighters & Bards
Flavor Text: This giant silvery-white sword has etched on it emblems of pure speed.
CONTINUOUS EFFECTS
-Accuracy and damage per hit each improve by 5.
-You are continually affected by Improved Haste which doubles your attacks per round and grants you immunity to the Slowed status.
Item Value: 50,000G
ALL: HULL’S MISC & INCIDENTAL LINES
Party Member Stealing (Not Hull Stealing)
HULL: Alright.  I don’t -like- stealing, and I don’t plan to vouch for you if we get caught, but if we gotta do it, we gotta do it.
Hull Intoxicated
NOTE: These lines only play once when Hull is in the party, and only when out of combat.  These lines also don’t play during the drinking contest event after beating Demogorgon as mentioned elsewhere in this document.
Only the highest intoxication value line applies at a time.  For example, if the party gets rip roarin’ drunk at a bar and Hull goes from 0 to 92 intoxication units before leaving the UI, only the 90-99 intoxication line will play instead of all lines from 50 to 90.
50-59 Intoxication Units
HULL: Well, whatever we’re celebration’, clink up ‘n’ drink up!
60-69 Intoxication Units
HULL: Thank you, sir!  May I please have another?
70-79 Intoxication Units
HULL: That’s about enough to drink!  <Hull laughs.>  We still gotta be awake tomorrow!
80-89 Intoxication Units
HULL: Kid, I think yer just tryin’ ta get me drunk over here.  <Hull laughs.>  I don’t mind this time.
90-99 Intoxication Units
HULL: Kid... I overdid it.  Let’s never get that drunk again this week!
100+ Intoxication Units
HULL: Alright, kid.  I -think- I’m standing, but every way feels like down!
Hull’s Sword Broke
NOTE: This line only plays once the party is out of combat.
HULL: My sword broke!?  Damnit!  I know there are a thousand -better- swords out there, but that one was -mine!-
Hull Has 25 STR
HULL: I feel god-like strength flowing through me!  I could arm wrestle -anything- and win!  Line up the deities!
Are you sure you want that, Hull?
HULL: Right now, yeah!
How serious are you about that?
HULL: I’m serious with a side of playful!
Do I count?
HULL: No comment, kid.
Enjoy your power while it lasts, Hull.  We’re moving on.
HULL: Of course!  <END DIALOG.>
Party Gets an Identified Scroll of Wish
<This line only plays out of combat.>
HULL: I wish I had a scroll of Wish!
HULL: I wish I had a scroll of Wish!
Is this a joke?
HULL: It -can- be!  Imagine using a scroll of Wish to wish for a replacement scroll of Wish!  It’s an infinite cycle!
Wish granted.
HULL: If yer serious, hand it over.
Wish denied.
HULL: Aww.
And I wish I had -every- scroll of Wish!
HULL: Careful what you wish for!  You might get a twisted version of it!
The moment’s over, Hull.  Let’s go.
HULL: I’d feel better holding that scroll tightly.
--NEXT DIALOG BOX--
HULL: But anyway, let’s go.  <END DIALOG.>
Party Kills a Dragon or Wyvern
NOTE: This line only plays once the party is out of combat.
HULL: Kid, we’re dragon slayers!  We’re movin’ up in the world!
Hull, why does that matter so much to you?
HULL: Every warrior from the tales proves his worth by slaying at -least- one dragon!  Some also slay demons or dark gods!  You’re only as powerful as the mightiest thing you’ve killed!
Does this dragon slaying make you a man?
HULL: Kid, I was -already- a man when you found me in Candlekeep!  This just lets me boast that I helped kill a dragon!
Dragons have feelings, too!
HULL: Shut up, kid.  Don’t spoil the moment!  -You- helped kill this dragon, too!
Maybe I regret us killing this thing.
HULL: I don’t regret it -at all!-
Any plans for this thing’s corpse?
HULL: Kid, maybe we can find someone somewhere to make us some armor or shields or somethin’.  I was never much of a blacksmith.
Alright, Hull.  Let’s move on.
HULL: Alright, kid.  I feel so proud!  <Hull sniffs.>  <END DIALOG.>
Party Kills Saemon Havarian
NOTE: This line only plays once the party is out of combat.
HULL: Kid, I didn’t trust Saemon much either, but was he -really- that much of a bastard that he -had- to die?
<Pick one.>
Why, yes, Hull!  And I’d do it again if I could!
HULL: <Hull sighs and shrugs.>  <END DIALOG.>
Now that I think about it... no.
HULL: What’s done is done.
No lectures on how we should revive him if we can?
HULL: I didn’t want to kill Saemon -that- much, but I also didn’t like him much, either.  Whatcha do now is on you, kid.  <END DIALOG.>
Let’s move along, Hull.
HULL: <Hull smiles and nods.>  <END DIALOG.>
Saemon seemed like too much of a traitor for me to let him live.
HULL: I smell your sense of justice, kid.  I got it.  <END DIALOG.>
We killed Saemon?  Oops!
HULL: <Hull facepalms.>  <END DIALOG.>
Another corpse for the pile!
HULL: <Hull just narrows his eyes at you, suspiciously.>  <END DIALOG.>
Hull is in the party when the party is outside and the sky is raining
HULL: Look!  Sky water!
A creature was struck by a weather-based lightning bolt
HULL: Zap!
ALL: HULL’S SELECTION, ACTION, AND REACTION LINES
Board code is included here for ease of portability to BeamDog’s forum.
[b]Voice Responses[/b]
This is a list of the 72 voice responses for Hull (being made leader, starting a fight, feeling tired, etc.) labeled in order from A (Battle Cry 1) onward.
The sound file format is based on the information I found [url=https://www.gibberlings3.net/forums/topic/34560-adding-soundsets-to-the-ees-using-the-ee-soundset-tool/]here[/url] and [url=https://forums.beamdog.com/discussion/37191/how-to-install-custom-soundsets-the-easy-way-custom-soundsets-included-now-with-subtitles]here[/url] and [url=https://forums.beamdog.com/discussion/82008/graions-soundsets-for-bg-sod-bg2-iwd-eet-ee-2-6-last-update-2022-02-19/p1]here[/url], as well as testing with the sample sound sets in-game.
[u]A: Battle Cry 1[/u]
Surrender or die!
[u]B: Becoming Leader[/u]
I’m a reader which makes me a leader!
[u]C: Tired/Fatigued[/u]
First you work the day shift, -then- you work the night shift!  <frustrated sigh>  When does it -end?!-
[u]D: Bored[/u]
I’m -way- too bored and sober just to be waitin’ around!
[u]E: Badly Wounded[/u]
Heal me NOW!
[u]F: Selected 1[/u]
Does duty call?
[u]G: Selected 2[/u]
Present and accounted for!
[u]H: Selected 3[/u]
Got good news?
[u]I: Action Acknowledgement 1[/u]
As it should be.
[u]J: Action Acknowledgement 2[/u]
As you ordered!
[u]K: Action Acknowledgement 3[/u]
On it!
[u]L: Taking Damage 1[/u]
I’m hurt!
[u]M: Dying[/u]
Avenge me!
[u]N: Party is in a Forest[/u]
A forest means four main things:  Animals, plants, bandits, and -crap!-
[u]O: Party is in a City[/u]
I’m up for enjoying the finer parts of civilization here.  What do you say?
[u]P: Party is in an Underground or a Cavernous Area[/u]
This place smells like an -ambush!-
[u]Q: Daytime[/u]
Let’s stop burnin’ daylight and get back to fighting, or reading, or whatever else we were doing.
[u]R: Nighttime[/u]
Right now… I could go for a good bed, a good book, and a good beer.
[u]S: Action Acknowledgement 4[/u]
When do we get promoted?
[u]T: Action Acknowledgement 5[/u]
Let’s go!
[u]U: Action Acknowledgement 6[/u]
I hope you know what yer doin’, kid.
[u]V: Action Acknowledgement 7[/u]
So be it.
[u]W: Reaction to Party Member Death 1[/u]
I -failed- you!
[u]X: Rare Action Acknowledgement 1[/u]
I -heard- you, but I don’t -want- to!
[u]Y: Rare Action Acknowledgement 2[/u]
I’ll do it for a keg of ale!
[u]Z: Critical Hit[/u]
-That’ll- show those BASTARDS!
[u]0: Selection 4[/u]
Is it war time already?
[u]1: Critical Miss[/u]
My hand slipped!
[u]2: Subject Immune to Damage from Current Weapon[/u]
I need better magic to hurt this thing!
[u]3: Can’t Carry Any More[/u]
I’m -not- your pack mule.  I’m carrying enough already!
[u]4: Pickpocket Successful[/u]
[u]5: Hiding Successful[/u]
Into the shadows.
[u]6: Spell Disrupted[/u]
My spell just fizzled!
[u]7: Thief Trap Successfully Set[/u]
Trap set.  Watch yer step.
[u]8: Battle Cry 2[/u]
I’m -itchin’- for a fight!
[u]9: Battle Cry 3[/u]
Stoppin’ you oughta be -fun!-
[u]A_: Rare Action Acknowledgement 3[/u]
Just because I’m strong doesn’t make me dumb!
[u]B_: Rare Action Acknowledgement 4[/u]
When do I get to order -you- around?
[u]C_: Attack Sound 1: Ignored[/u]
[u]D_: Attack Sound 2: Ignored[/u]
[u]E_: Attack Sound 3: Ignored[/u]
[u]F_: Attack Sound 4: Ignored[/u]
[u]G_: Battle Cry 4[/u]
Time to extinguish your flame!
[u]H_: Battle Cry 5[/u]
You messed with the candle!  Now you get burned!
[u]I_: Bored 2[/u]
<grunt> I should’ve brought something more interesting to read.
[u]J_: Breaking Point[/u]
I CAN’T TAKE IT ANYMORE!
[u]K_: Selected 5[/u]
Where to?
[u]L_: Selected 6[/u]
I noticed you pointed my way.
[u]M_: Selected 7[/u]
What would you have me do?
[u]N_: Taking Damage 2[/u]
[u]O_: Taking Damage 3[/u]
(grunt) OR Something hit me!
[u]P_: Dying 2[/u]
Resurrect me!
[u]Q_: Reaction to Party Member Death 2[/u]
Let’s resurrect our fallen ally!
[u]R_: Happy[/u]
Kid, I’m glad we’re in such good company.  Today’s a good day to be happy!
[u]S_: Badly Wounded 2[/u]
[u]T_: Becoming Leader 2[/u]
You’re promoting me?  Wow!  Thanks!
[u]U_: Morale Break 1[/u]
[u]V_: Morale Break 2[/u]
OUT OF THERE!  NOW!
[u]W_: Rare Selected 1[/u]
Maybe I should’ve joined the army, or the navy... or opened a tavern, or a bookstore.
[u]X_: Rare Selected 2[/u]
I wonder why Candlekeep even -has- guards.  They got enough magic to turn the world into a crater!
[u]Y_: Rare Selected 3[/u]
Maybe it’s time I learn a new skill set.
[u]Z_: Rare Selected 4[/u]
Sometimes, I feel like I’m just babysitting Gorion’s kid.
[u]0_: Rare Selected 5[/u]
What would Gorion do - besides raise a kid and die heroically?
[u]1_: Rare Selected 6[/u]
What would Drizzt do?  Probably talk a lot then kill something.
[u]2_: Rare Selected 7[/u]
What would Elminster do?  Oh yeah, -magic!-
[u]3_: Rare Selected 8[/u]
Can money buy happiness?  I sure think so!  Time to get more of it!
[u]4_: Tired 2[/u]
No more forced march!  Time for a break before -I- break something!
[u]5_: Unhappy 1 (Annoyed)[/u]
Kid, our group’s goin’ in the wrong direction.  -Someone- around here’s gettin’ too wicked!  I -wanna- stay, but I can’t take much more of this!
[u]6_: Unhappy 2 (Angry)[/u]
<grunt>  Enough of this wickedness and wastin’ my time!  That’s it!  I’m odda here!
ALL: TRINDEN’S SELECTION, ACTION, AND REACTION LINES
Board code is included here for ease of portability to BeamDog’s forum.
[b]Voice Responses[/b]
This is a list of the 72 voice responses for Trinden (being made leader, starting a fight, feeling tired, etc.) labeled in order from A (Battle Cry 1) onward.
The sound file format is based on the information I found [url=https://www.gibberlings3.net/forums/topic/34560-adding-soundsets-to-the-ees-using-the-ee-soundset-tool/]here[/url] and [url=https://forums.beamdog.com/discussion/37191/how-to-install-custom-soundsets-the-easy-way-custom-soundsets-included-now-with-subtitles]here[/url] and [url=https://forums.beamdog.com/discussion/82008/graions-soundsets-for-bg-sod-bg2-iwd-eet-ee-2-6-last-update-2022-02-19/p1]here[/url], as well as testing with the sample sound sets in-game.
[u]A: Battle Cry 1[/u]
Violence solves everything!
[u]B: Becoming Leader[/u]
It is time we -reinvent- this world!
[u]C: Tired/Fatigued[/u]
Fatigue is a curse for not accepting undeath!
[u]D: Bored[/u]
Our idleness is fruitless while our enemies conspire against us!
[u]E: Badly Wounded[/u]
Heal me NOW!
[u]F: Selected 1[/u]
What have we here?
[u]G: Selected 2[/u]
What opportunity calls?
[u]H: Selected 3[/u]
What would you have me do?
[u]I: Action Acknowledgement 1[/u]
As it should be.
[u]J: Action Acknowledgement 2[/u]
Prosperity awaits.
[u]K: Action Acknowledgement 3[/u]
Seizing the opportunity!
[u]L: Taking Damage 1[/u]
<grunt> OR I’m hurt!
[u]M: Dying[/u]
Resurrect me!
[u]N: Party is in a Forest[/u]
Amidst the beautiful scenery are hearts filled with treachery.
[u]O: Party is in a City[/u]
Politics are the -least- civil part of -any- civilization!
[u]P: Party is in an Underground or a Cavernous Area[/u]
What prosperity awaits in the darkness?
[u]Q: Daytime[/u]
The daylight - when those who claim to be civilized are expected to -act- the part.
[u]R: Nighttime[/u]
The dim light makes way for revelry and conspiracy.
[u]S: Action Acknowledgement 4[/u]
Enacting the plan.
[u]T: Action Acknowledgement 5[/u]
Fulfilling the objective.
[u]U: Action Acknowledgement 6[/u]
Furthering our cause.
[u]V: Action Acknowledgement 7[/u]
So be it.
[u]W: Reaction to Party Member Death 1[/u]
Let us resurrect this one.
[u]X: Rare Action Acknowledgement 1[/u]
Magic solves everything, violence solves everything, and money solves everything.  This is my trinity.
[u]Y: Rare Action Acknowledgement 2[/u]
-Everything- depends on details.
[u]Z: Critical Hit[/u]
Critical evisceration!
[u]0: Selection 4[/u]
What is our business?
[u]1: Critical Miss[/u]
[u]2: Subject Immune to Damage from Current Weapon[/u]
My weapon was insufficient!  Time to change tactics.
[u]3: Can’t Carry Any More[/u]
That would exceed my carrying capacity.
[u]4: Pickpocket Successful[/u]
Object acquired.
[u]5: Hiding Successful[/u]
Preparing for sabotage.
[u]6: Spell Disrupted[/u]
My spell -disobeyed- me.
[u]7: Thief Trap Successfully Set[/u]
I laid a trap to -our- advantage.
[u]8: Battle Cry 2[/u]
Your era has -ended!-
[u]9: Battle Cry 3[/u]
Your -death- is a -statistic!-
[u]A_: Rare Action Acknowledgement 3[/u]
We were born for a time such as this.
[u]B_: Rare Action Acknowledgement 4[/u]
Why do you -obsessively- attempt to grab my attention?
[u]C_: Attack Sound 1: Ignored[/u]
[u]D_: Attack Sound 2: Ignored[/u]
[u]E_: Attack Sound 3: Ignored[/u]
[u]F_: Attack Sound 4: Ignored[/u]
[u]G_: Battle Cry 4[/u]
Put your foolish ambitions to rest!
[u]H_: Battle Cry 5[/u]
Time to undo -your- mistakes!
[u]I_: Bored 2[/u]
Idle minds plan conspiracies.  Idle hands enact revolutions!
[u]J_: Breaking Point[/u]
I REVOLT!
[u]K_: Selected 5[/u]
What beckons us?
[u]L_: Selected 6[/u]
What demands our attention?
[u]M_: Selected 7[/u]
What are our priorities?
[u]N_: Taking Damage 2[/u]
[u]O_: Taking Damage 3[/u]
<grunt> OR Our defenses are penetrated!
[u]P_: Dying 2[/u]
I will return!
[u]Q_: Reaction to Party Member Death 2[/u]
This one’s death is simply fixed.
[u]R_: Happy[/u]
I am -pleased.-  This is good.
[u]S_: Badly Wounded 2[/u]
MEND ME!
[u]T_: Becoming Leader 2[/u]
It is time we -redefine- this world!
[u]U_: Morale Break 1[/u]
[u]V_: Morale Break 2[/u]
[u]W_: Rare Selected 1[/u]
If you had the choice to reinvent the world, would you?  The answer is -obviously- yes!
[u]X_: Rare Selected 2[/u]
If you had the chance to remake the world in your image, -how- would you do it?
[u]Y_: Rare Selected 3[/u]
How will you expand your means?  How will you fulfill your dreams?
[u]Z_: Rare Selected 4[/u]
How will you live -fearlessly- and without -regret?-
[u]0_: Rare Selected 5[/u]
What victory and prosperity will you speak in advance and believe it into being?
[u]1_: Rare Selected 6[/u]
What divine intervention have you expected today?  What have you done with it?
[u]2_: Rare Selected 7[/u]
What is your -legacy- and how will you be honored among future generations?
[u]3_: Rare Selected 8[/u]
You are wise to heed my wisdom, -human-, for I do not offer my services freely to all.
[u]4_: Tired 2[/u]
It is time we retired to -dream- of a better future!
[u]5_: Unhappy 1 (Annoyed)[/u]
I am displeased with this group’s reputation.  Consider this your warning.
[u]6_: Unhappy 2 (Angry)[/u]
Our reputation needs refinement!  Fix it.  NOW!
ALL: VOLO’S SELECTION, ACTION, AND REACTION LINES
Board code is included here for ease of portability to BeamDog’s forum.
[b]Voice Responses[/b]
This is a list of the 72 voice responses for Volo (being made leader, starting a fight, feeling tired, etc.) labeled in order from A (Battle Cry 1) onward.
The sound file format is based on the information I found [url=https://www.gibberlings3.net/forums/topic/34560-adding-soundsets-to-the-ees-using-the-ee-soundset-tool/]here[/url] and [url=https://forums.beamdog.com/discussion/37191/how-to-install-custom-soundsets-the-easy-way-custom-soundsets-included-now-with-subtitles]here[/url] and [url=https://forums.beamdog.com/discussion/82008/graions-soundsets-for-bg-sod-bg2-iwd-eet-ee-2-6-last-update-2022-02-19/p1]here[/url], as well as testing with the sample sound sets in-game.
[u]A: Battle Cry 1[/u]
You lose!  The end!
[u]B: Becoming Leader[/u]
‘Leader’ has such a nice ring to it!  Perhaps a guide to leadership will be the next book I write!
[u]C: Tired/Fatigued[/u]
And so, after our journeying, we took a well-deserved break.
[u]D: Bored[/u]
I’m already caught up in writing about my inspirations.  Let’s waste no time in finding more!
[u]E: Badly Wounded[/u]
Fix my hurt!
[u]F: Selected 1[/u]
Where next?
[u]G: Selected 2[/u]
Is it my line now?
[u]H: Selected 3[/u]
What’s my motivation?
[u]I: Action Acknowledgement 1[/u]
The show must go on!
[u]J: Action Acknowledgement 2[/u]
Let us please the people!
[u]K: Action Acknowledgement 3[/u]
For the love of literature!
[u]L: Taking Damage 1[/u]
The pain!
[u]M: Dying[/u]
The reaper takes the toll for my soul!
[u]N: Party is in a Forest[/u]
Then we went from tree to tree, watching out for animals, streams, and bandits!
[u]O: Party is in a City[/u]
Then we arrived in civilization for shopping, talking, and perhaps even a rest!
[u]P: Party is in an Underground or a Cavernous Area[/u]
Then we went into a cavernous place!  Look out for danger in the dark!
[u]Q: Daytime[/u]
It’s so bright!  Sometimes I wonder why it must be so grossly incandescent!
[u]R: Nighttime[/u]
Let the crickets and nightingales sing us a wonderful song.
[u]S: Action Acknowledgement 4[/u]
Walk this way!
[u]T: Action Acknowledgement 5[/u]
With confidence!
[u]U: Action Acknowledgement 6[/u]
I can -feel- the inspiration!
[u]V: Action Acknowledgement 7[/u]
[u]W: Reaction to Party Member Death 1[/u]
Then an ally bit the dust.  How tragic!
[u]X: Rare Action Acknowledgement 1[/u]
Is this an editorial review I hear?
[u]Y: Rare Action Acknowledgement 2[/u]
You must be -very- curious about me to talk so long!
[u]Z: Critical Hit[/u]
Perfect timing!
[u]0: Selection 4[/u]
Let’s be ready for showtime!
[u]1: Critical Miss[/u]
No, -not- that way!
[u]2: Subject Immune to Damage from Current Weapon[/u]
No effect?  Something is wrong here!
[u]3: Can’t Carry Any More[/u]
Then someone -else- took the burden!  I can carry no more!
[u]4: Pickpocket Successful[/u]
I trust -myself- more with this.
[u]5: Hiding Successful[/u]
Hiding upstage.
[u]6: Spell Disrupted[/u]
My spell forgot its lines!
[u]7: Thief Trap Successfully Set[/u]
Trap set.  Thank you, stage crew!
[u]8: Battle Cry 2[/u]
You’re on the wrong side of history!
[u]9: Battle Cry 3[/u]
The script says we win!
[u]A_: Rare Action Acknowledgement 3[/u]
Are you my biggest fan?
[u]B_: Rare Action Acknowledgement 4[/u]
Do you want me to autograph something for you?
[u]C_: Attack Sound 1: Ignored[/u]
[u]D_: Attack Sound 2: Ignored[/u]
[u]E_: Attack Sound 3: Ignored[/u]
[u]F_: Attack Sound 4: Ignored[/u]
[u]G_: Battle Cry 4[/u]
You are not in my happy ending!
[u]H_: Battle Cry 5[/u]
You are -not- in the sequel!
[u]I_: Bored 2[/u]
Let us redeem the time for the days are against us otherwise!
[u]J_: Breaking Point[/u]
I can take no more of your criticism!  I leave NOW!
[u]K_: Selected 5[/u]
You rang?
[u]L_: Selected 6[/u]
Good.  You’re ready for me.
[u]M_: Selected 7[/u]
What would you have me do?
[u]N_: Taking Damage 2[/u]
[u]O_: Taking Damage 3[/u]
(grunt) OR Bah!
[u]P_: Dying 2[/u]
Revive me... for the next show!
[u]Q_: Reaction to Party Member Death 2[/u]
Too many friends are performing their death scenes!
[u]R_: Happy[/u]
I am glad we are all getting along.  How can we do this even better?
[u]S_: Badly Wounded 2[/u]
[u]T_: Becoming Leader 2[/u]
And so we were led to victory by... me!
[u]U_: Morale Break 1[/u]
Then we ran away really fast!
[u]V_: Morale Break 2[/u]
Run!  The critics are coming!
[u]W_: Rare Selected 1[/u]
All around the world people are just -waiting- to read my latest works!
[u]X_: Rare Selected 2[/u]
What do you mean, ‘fact check’ and ‘proofread?’
[u]Y_: Rare Selected 3[/u]
Is it amusing you to stare into my soul?
[u]Z_: Rare Selected 4[/u]
I appreciate the attention, but do you truly have nothing better to do?
[u]0_: Rare Selected 5[/u]
What do you mean ‘I owe you money?’  I haven’t borrowed any.  Lately.
[u]1_: Rare Selected 6[/u]
What should I write my next book about?  Perhaps something about sparkling vampires and Undead with a big cross on the cover!  Ooh, and werewolves and mummies and golems!
[u]2_: Rare Selected 7[/u]
What do you mean that my books are banned throughout the civilized world?  I’m not the only one with this name, you know!
[u]3_: Rare Selected 8[/u]
The pen is mightier than the sword... if the sword is very small and the pen is very sharp.
[u]4_: Tired 2[/u]
When can we fade to black with a nap?
[u]5_: Unhappy 1 (Annoyed)[/u]
I wish we could all get along better, but someone wicked is among us!
[u]6_: Unhappy 2 (Angry)[/u]
Well, it seems we must agree to disagree.  I wish we could get along, but my inspiration is at risk if I stay!
BG2: BAELOTH’S INNATE ABILITIES
Baeloth starts with Dimension Door, usable at will on himself only.
Inmates Methodology
Baeloth - over the course of The Black Pits I & II - uses this ability often.  He doesn’t know it as a spell since I wasn’t sure what spells players would want to pick, and he uses it enough to warrant him having it as an innate ability.
While it may seem strange for any character to have this spell which was eventually deemed NPC only, note that Baeloth was made to break rules.  He knows more level 1-3 arcane spells than a typical Sor.
        Also, various mods - such as OlvynSpells - make Dimension Door or a similar ability a player character-learnable spell or/and add recruitable NPCs with a Dimension Door ability.
BG2: BAELOTH’S STARTING GEAR
Baeloth starts with this gear assuming he wasn’t in the party already.
        In an EET game, any items Baeloth had in his inventory or equipped are dropped on the ground beside Baeloth.  This is done for technical reasons, to ensure Baeloth’s bags aren’t bursting and items aren’t lost.
Gear Methodology
I chose gear which seemed to fit Baeloth’s theme of being a 
Drow Sorcerer and schemer while also fitting his canonical image.  
        While Baeloth may seem to start with a lot, I also remind you Keldorn starts with some of the best gear in the game for him.  Yes, even accounting for ToB.  Keldorn’s +1 Full Plate Armor gives him continual freedom of movement.  Keldorn’s Hallowed Redeemer Sword provides pure magic backlash damage to any creature that hits him in melee, and this effect ignores spell resistance.  It’s no Carsomyr in terms of offense, but, if Keldorn equips his starting sword with a high enough defense and healing factor, even late game bosses can melee themselves to death in this ridiculous manner!
        Sure, Baeloth’s Spinal Staff is a +3 weapon, but are you really about to put him in melee?  The +4 Staff of Rhynn is available for purchase in Ribald’s standard stock as soon as BG2 Chapter 1.
BG2: Shadows of Amn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Baeloth’s Spinal Staff +3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Robe of the Evil Archmagi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Baeloth’s Pentagram Pendant
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Baeloth’s Belt of Holding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Cloak of Nondetection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Oil of Speed x6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Elixir of Health x10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Potion of Mirrored Eyes x5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Scroll Case (empty)
BG2: Throne of Bhaal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Baeloth’s Spinal Staff +3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Robe of the Evil Archmagi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Baeloth’s Pentagram Pendant
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Belt of Inertial Barrier (equipped)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Baeloth’s Belt of Holding (inventory)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Cloak of Nondetection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Boots of Speed
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Ring of Protection +2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Potion of Superior Healing x20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Oil of Speed x6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Elixir of Health x20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Potion of Mirrored Eyes x5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Potion of Magic Protection x2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Scroll Case (empty)
BG2: BAELOTH’S STARTING PROFICIENCIES
Baeloth starts these proficiencies by default.  Various mods can change them, like NPC EE.
Proficiencies by Level (Sorcerer)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * 1: Quarterstaff +
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * 6: Sling +
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * 12: Dagger +
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * 18: Dart +
BG2: Shadows of Amn (Sorcerer10)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Quarterstaff: +
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Sling: +
BG2: Throne of Bhaal (Sorcerer17)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Dagger: +
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Dart: +
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Quarterstaff: +
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Sling: +
BG2: BAELOTH’S STARTING SPELLS
Baeloth starts these spells by default.  Various mods can change them, like NPC EE.
        Since Baeloth is a continuous NPC, for EET games, he has all his spells known from BG1 & SoD.  This list is primarily for those starting a new game in BG2.  (I know this breaks the default rules for the number of spells a Sor can know, but that’s BeamDog’s interpretation of Baeloth combined with my interpretation of the Sor spells known progression.)
        I purposely chose spells I believed would be useful long-term, with or without Spell Revisions installed.
Spells by Level (Sorcerer10 - SoA)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * 1: Burning Hands, Chromatic Orb, Identify, Larloch’s Minor Drain, Magic Missile, Protection from Evil, Protection from Petrification, Shield, Spook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * 2: Detect Invisibility, Knock, Melf’s Acid Arrow, Mirror Image, Ray of Enfeeblement, Web
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * 3: Dire Charm, Dispel Magic, Fireball, Haste, Slow, Skull Trap
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * 4: Improved Invisibility, Stoneskin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * 5: Lower Resist
Spells by Level (Sorcerer17 - ToB)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   * 1: Burning Hands, Chromatic Orb, Identify, Larloch’s Minor Drain, Magic Missile, Protection from Evil, Protection from Petrification, Shield, Spook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   * 2: Detect Invisibility, Knock, Melf’s Acid Arrow, Mirror Image, Ray of Enfeeblement, Vocalize, Web
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   * 3: Dire Charm, Dispel Magic, Fireball, Haste, Melf’s Minute Meteors, Slow, Skull Trap
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   * 4: Greater Malison, Improved Invisibility, Minor Sequencer, Stoneskin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   * 5: Animate Dead, Breach, Lower Resist, Spell Immunity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   * 6: Contingency, Protection from Magic Energy, Protection from Magic Weapons
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   * 7: Mordenkainen’s Sword, Project Image, Spell Sequencer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   * 8: Horrid Wilting, Spell Trigger
ALL: HULL’S STARTING GEAR
Hull starts with this gear assuming he wasn’t in the party already.  For example, Siege of Dragonspear Hull only starts with this gear if he starts in SoD instead of BG1.
        The only exception is his scroll case which he gains in BG2, regardless of whether he was in the party.
Gear Methodology
I chose gear which seemed to fit Hull’s theme of being a Human Fighter and a sword & shield tank.  He’s wise enough to carry a longbow - because this is Faerun in AD&D 2e where these can be wonderful - but that isn’t his initial specialty.  I know that he’s purposely made to be dual classable into Cleric, Thief, and Wizard, but I can’t safely assume everyone will change his class.
        When considering what specific gear to give him, I gave him items based on what I believed he could have logically acquired by this point, as well as things that fit his personality.  For example, he talked about the iron crisis in vanilla BG1 back in 1998, meaning he carries backup weapons.  (The quarterstaves he carries are because the Candlekeep Watchers carry them, and they’re useful as cross-country walking sticks as well as skeleton-slaying whacking sticks!)
        When considering balance for picking items, I purposely chose items that were useful and sometimes versatile, but not the best available to someone who’s played extensively through this point.  For example, Hull never starts with +3 Plate Mail (not Full Plate) in Siege of Dragonspear even though rushing Durlag’s Tower - where it’s normally found - is something that’s quite possible and that I’ve enjoyed doing.
        Some items I picked for flavor, like the Ring of Regeneration and Ring of Infravision.  To a player, these don’t normally mean much since Infravision comes free with most races and on companions freely accessible in the early game, and being able to save & reload to sleep for days or months at a time to fully recover HP is a minor thing in a computer game.  From an in-character perspective, however, these things matter more.
        I also considered what little established Baldur’s Gate canon there is regarding Hull.  He starts with Hull’s Longsword in BG1 because his name is on it, and he keeps it later for sentimental value.  He starts equipped in normal Hull gear, but I also gave him a ranged weapon, some mundane ammo, and some delicious potions that a buncha BG1 companions started with.  (His Elixirs of Health are to actually remove intoxication and disease, since Antidotes by default don’t do that!)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Hull’s Longsword if he had it when CHARNAME left Candlekeep
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Large Shield
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Quarterstaff
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Dagger
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Composite Longbow
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 120 arrows
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Helm (winged)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Plate Mail (not Full Plate)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Potion of Healing x3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Oil of Speed
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Elixir of Health x3
Siege of Dragonspear
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * +2 Longsword
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * +1 Large Shield
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * +2 Quarterstaff
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * +2 Dagger
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * +2 Longbow of Marksmanship
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Hull’s Longsword if he had it when CHARNAME left Candlekeep
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Quiver of Plenty (nonmagical arrows)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * +2 Arrow x120
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * +1 Fire Arrow x120
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Arrow of Dispelling x80
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Helm of Charm Protection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * +1 Plate Mail (not Full Plate)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Ring of Regeneration
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * +1 Ring of Protection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Ring of Infravision (in inventory initially)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Boots of Speed
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Golden Girdle
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Gauntlets of Weapon Expertise
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Ammo Belt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Potion Case (with Hull’s bottles inside)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Potion of Extra Healing x20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Oil of Speed x6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Elixir of Health x10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Potion of Fire Giant Strength x5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Potion of Mirrored Eyes x5
BG2: Shadows of Amn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Flametongue
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * +1 Large Shield
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * +2 Quarterstaff
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * +2 Dagger
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * +2 Longbow of Marksmanship
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Hull’s Longsword if he had it when CHARNAME left Candlekeep
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Quiver of Plenty (nonmagical arrows)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * +2 Arrow x120
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * +1 Fire Arrow x120
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Arrow of Dispelling x80
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Helm of Charm Protection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * +1 Plate Mail (not Full Plate)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Ring of Regeneration
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * +1 Ring of Protection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Ring of Infravision (in inventory initially)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Boots of Speed
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Girdle of Hill Giant Strength
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Gauntlets of Weapon Expertise
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Ammo Belt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Potion Case (with Hull’s bottles inside)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Scroll Case (see below for details)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Potion of Extra Healing x20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Oil of Speed x6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Elixir of Health x10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Potion of Fire Giant Strength x5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Potion of Mirrored Eyes x5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Potion of Magic Protection x2
BG2: Throne of Bhaal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Flametongue
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * +4 Longsword
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * +2 Large Shield
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * +4 Staff of Rhynn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * +2 Dagger of Venom
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * +2 Longbow of Marksmanship
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Hull’s Longsword if he had it when CHARNAME left Candlekeep
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Quiver of Plenty (+1 arrows)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * +3 Arrow x120
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * +1 Fire Arrow x120
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Arrow of Detonation x20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Arrow of Dispelling x80
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Helm of Charm Protection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Helmet of Defense (in inventory initially)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * +1 Full Plate Armor
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Ring of Regeneration
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * +2 Ring of Protection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Ring of Infravision (in inventory initially)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Boots of Speed
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Girdle of Stone Giant Strength
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Gauntlets of Weapon Expertise
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Gem of True Seeing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Ammo Belt (with Hull’s ammo in it)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Potion Case (with Hull’s bottles inside)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Scroll Case (see below for details)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Potion of Superior Healing x20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Oil of Speed x15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Elixir of Health x20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Potion of Storm Giant Strength x6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Potion of Mirrored Eyes x10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Potion of Magic Protection x2
Hull’s Scroll Case for BGII - added even if he joined for BG1/SoD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Gorion’s Final Letter
Divine Scrolls
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Scroll of Cure Critical Wounds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Scroll of Protection from Evil 10’ Radius
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Scroll of Protection from Poison x2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Scroll of Raise Dead x2
Arcane Scrolls
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Scroll of Blur
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Scroll of Find Familiar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Scroll of Haste
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Scroll of Mirror Image
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Scroll of Protection from Normal Weapons
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Scroll of Protection from Petrification
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Scroll of Stoneskin
ALL: HULL’S STARTING PROFICIENCIES
Hull starts these proficiencies by default.  Various mods can change them, like NPC EE.
Proficiencies by Level (Fighter)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 1: Longbow ++, Longsword ++
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 3: Longsword +++
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 6: Longsword ++++
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 9: Longsword +++++
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 12: Longbow +++
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 15: Longbow ++++
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 18: Longbow +++++
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 21: Sword & Shield Style +
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 24: Sword & Shield Style ++
BG1 (Fighter1)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Longbow: ++
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Longsword: ++
Siege of Dragonspear (Fighter9)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Longbow: ++
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Longsword: +++++
BG2: Shadows of Amn (Fighter9 or so)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Longbow: ++
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Longsword: +++++
BG2: Throne of Bhaal (Fighter18)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Longbow: +++++
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Longsword: +++++
ALL: HULL’S STARTING STATS
Hull starts these stats by default.  Various mods can change them, like NPC EE.
LN Male Human
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * STR: 18/92
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * DEX: 17
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CON: 18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * INT: 18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * WIS: 17
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CHA: 17
ALL: VOLO’S STARTING GEAR
Volo’s gear is not continuous between BG1 & ToB.  Mechanically, stuff that’s useful at the end of BG1 and the start of SoD is probably quite weak near the start of ToB when the party could’ve already killed Demogorgon!
Gear Methodology
I chose gear which seemed to fit Volo’s theme of being a Human Bard who’s been lucky, intelligent, charismatic, entertaining, and belonging nowhere near the front lines!  He’s proficient in some melee weaponry to start, but that’s largely out of necessity in-character.  I imagine him also as a stage actor who at least tries to persuade audiences he’s adept at swordplay.
        When considering what specific gear to give him, I gave him items based on what I believed he could have logically acquired by this point, as well as things that fit his personality.
        When considering balance for picking items, I purposely chose items that were useful and sometimes versatile, but not the best available to someone who’s played extensively through this point.  (I know Volo is an author-insert character who’s managed to survive since D&D 2e at least, but for him to be playable in a somewhat balanced way, I adapted some things.)  For example, he doesn’t start BG1 with a Flametongue longsword even though he might have logically acquired one somehow.
        Some items I picked for flavor, like the Ring of Regeneration and Ring of Infravision.  To a player, these don’t normally mean much since Infravision comes free with most races and on companions freely accessible in the early game, and being able to save & reload to sleep for days or months at a time to fully recover HP is a minor thing in a computer game.  From an in-character perspective, however, these things matter more.
        I also considered at least some of D&D canon regarding Volo.  In short, Volo has often acted as an in-universe license to GMs to fudge things for or against players.  Volo’s documentation of people, places, and things has focused on being entertaining and not necessarily accurate.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * +1 Longsword
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * +1 Buckler
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Quarterstaff
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Longbow
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Quiver of Plenty (nonmagical arrows)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Arrow of Fire x40
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Elven Chain Mail
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Volo’s Lucky Hood of Disguise
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Potion of Invisibility x3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Oil of Speed x3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Elixir of Health x3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Ring of Infravision
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Ring of Regeneration
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Scroll Case (see below for details)
BG2: Shadows of Amn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * +2 Longsword
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * +2 Buckler
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * +1 Quarterstaff
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * +1 Longbow
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Quiver of Plenty (nonmagical arrows)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Arrow of Fire x40
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Bladesinger’s Chain Mail
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Volo’s Lucky Hood of Disguise
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Potion of Invisibility x5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Oil of Speed x5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Elixir of Health x5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Ring of Infravision
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Ring of Regeneration
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Scroll Case (see below for details)
BG2: Throne of Bhaal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Flametongue
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * +3 Longsword
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * +2 Buckler of the Fist
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * +2 Longbow of Marksmanship
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Quiver of Plenty (+1 arrows)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * +3 Arrow x120
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * +1 Fire Arrow x120
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Arrow of Dispelling x80
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Volo’s Lucky Hood of Disguise
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Bladesinger Chain
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Ring of Regeneration
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * +2 Ring of Protection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Ring of Infravision (in inventory initially)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Boots of Speed
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Belt of Inertial Barrier
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Stalker Gauntlets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Gem of True Seeing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Ammo Belt (with Volo’s ammo in it)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Potion Case (with Volo’s bottles inside)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Scroll Case (see below for details)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Potion of Superior Healing x20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Oil of Speed x15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Elixir of Health x20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Potion of Storm Giant Strength x6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Potion of Mirrored Eyes x10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Potion of Magic Protection x2
Volo’s Scroll Case for BG1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Elminster’s Letter to Volo
Divine Scrolls
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Scroll of Cure Critical Wounds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Scroll of Protection from Evil 10’ Radius
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Scroll of Protection from Poison x2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Scroll of Raise Dead x2
Arcane Scrolls
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Scroll of Blur
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Scroll of Find Familiar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Scroll of Invisibility Sphere
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Scroll of Mirror Image
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Scroll of Protection from Normal Weapons
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Scroll of Protection from Petrification
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Scroll of Stoneskin
Volo’s Scroll Case for BGII - added even if he joined for BG1/SoD
Divine Scrolls
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Scroll of Cure Critical Wounds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Scroll of Protection from Evil 10’ Radius
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Scroll of Protection from Poison x2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Scroll of Raise Dead x2
Arcane Scrolls
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Scroll of Blur
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Scroll of Find Familiar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Scroll of Freedom
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Scroll of Haste
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Scroll of Mirror Image
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Scroll of Protection from Magical Weapons
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Scroll of Protection from Normal Weapons
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Scroll of Protection from Petrification
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Scroll of Stoneskin
ALL: VOLO’S STARTING PROFICIENCIES
Volo starts these proficiencies by default.  Various mods can change them, like NPC EE.
Proficiencies by Level (Volo)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 1: Longbow +, Longsword +
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 4: Sword and Shield Style +
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 8: Sling +
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 16: Crossbow +
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 20: Single Weapon Style +
BG1 (Bard5)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Longbow: +
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Longsword: +
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Sword and Shield Style +
BG2: Shadows of Amn (Bard10)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 1: Longbow +, Longsword +
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 4: Sword and Shield Style +
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 8: Sling +
BG2: Throne of Bhaal (Bard20)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 1: Longbow +, Longsword +
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 4: Sword and Shield Style +
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 8: Sling +
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 16: Crossbow +
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 20: Single Weapon Style +
ALL: VOLO’S STARTING STATS
Volo starts these stats by default.  Various mods can change them, like NPC EE.
CG Male Human
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * STR: 15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * DEX: 18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CON: 16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * INT: 19 (he read an INT tome)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * WIS: 12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CHA: 18
Arcane Spells Known
All level 1 - 6 vanilla arcane spells.  Volo is well-traveled, and his first book, Volo’s Guide to All Things Magical, got him in trouble in-universe for selling secrets.
